05 Overview and Background
General
718-10-05-1
The Compensation—Stock Compensation Topic provides guidance on share-based payment transactions. This Topic includes the following Subtopics:
aOverall
bAwards Classified as Equity
cAwards Classified as Liabilities
dEmployee Stock Ownership Plans
eEmployee Stock Purchase Plans
fIncome Taxes.
718-10-05-2
This Topic provides guidance for employee and nonemployee share-based payment transactions.
718-10-05-3
This Subtopic provides general guidance related to share-based payment arrangements. This Subtopic and Subtopics 718-20 and 718-30 are interrelated and the required guidance may be located in either this Subtopic or one of the other Subtopics. In general, material that relates to both equity and liability instruments is included in this Subtopic, while material more specifically related to either equity or liability instruments is included in their respective Subtopics. Guidance related to income taxes for share-based payment arrangements is contained in Subtopic 718-740.

10 Objectives
General
718-10-10-1
The objective of accounting for transactions under share-based payment arrangements is to recognize in the financial statements the goods or services received in exchange for equity instruments granted or liabilities incurred and the related cost to the entity as those goods or services are received. This Topic uses the terms compensation and payment in their broadest senses to refer to the consideration paid for goods or services or the consideration paid to a customer.
718-10-10-2
This Topic requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. This Topic establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all entities to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for share-based payment transactions except for equity instruments held by employee stock ownership plans.

15 Scope and Scope Exceptions
General
> Overall Guidance
718-10-15-1
The Scope Section of the Overall Subtopic establishes the pervasive scope for all Subtopics of the Compensation—Stock Compensation Topic. Unless explicitly addressed within specific Subtopics, the following scope guidance applies to all Subtopics of the Compensation—Stock Compensation Topic, with the exception of Subtopic 718-50, which has its own discrete scope.
> Entities
718-10-15-2
The guidance in the Compensation—Stock Compensation Topic applies to all entities that enter into share-based payment transactions.
> Transactions
718-10-15-3
The guidance in the Compensation—Stock Compensation Topic applies to all share-based payment transactions in which a grantor acquires goods or services to be used or consumed in the grantor's own operations or provides consideration payable to a customer by either of the following:
aIssuing (or offering to issue) its shares, share options, or other equity instruments to an employee or a nonemployee
bIncurring liabilities to an employee or a nonemployee that meet either of the following conditions:
1The amounts are based, at least in part, on the price of the entity's shares or other equity instruments. (The phrase at least in part is used because an award of share-based compensation may be indexed to both the price of an entity's shares and something else that is neither the price of the entity's shares nor a market, performance, or service condition.)
2The awards require or may require settlement by issuing the entity's equity shares or other equity instruments.
718-10-15-3A
Paragraphs 323-10-25-3 through 25-5 provide guidance on accounting for share-based compensation granted by an investor to employees or nonemployees of an equity method investee that provide goods or services to the investee that are used or consumed in the investee's operations.
718-10-15-3B
An entity shall apply the guidance in paragraph 718-10-15-3 to determine whether a profits interest or similar award is within the scope of this Topic. Paragraphs 718-10-55-138 through 55-148 illustrate how the guidance in paragraph 718-10-15-3 applies to common features in a profits interest or similar award.
718-10-15-4
Share-based payments awarded to a grantee by a related party or other holder of an economic interest in the entity as compensation for goods or services provided to the reporting entity are share-based payment transactions to be accounted for under this Topic unless the transfer is clearly for a purpose other than compensation for goods or services to the reporting entity. The substance of such a transaction is that the economic interest holder makes a capital contribution to the reporting entity, and the entity uses those funds to pay for goods or services.
718-10-15-5
The guidance in this Topic does not apply to transactions involving share-based payment awards granted to a lender or an investor that provides financing to the issuer. However, see paragraphs 815-40-35-14 through 35-15, 815-40-35-18, 815-40-55-49, and 815-40-55-52 for guidance on an issuer's accounting for modifications or exchanges of written call options to compensate grantees.
aSubparagraph superseded by Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-07.
bSubparagraph superseded by Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-08.
cSubparagraph superseded by Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-08.
718-10-15-5A
Share-based consideration granted to a customer (or to other parties that purchase the grantor's goods or services from the customer) shall be measured and classified in accordance with the guidance in this Topic (see paragraph 606-10-32-25A) and reflected as a reduction of the transaction price and, therefore, of revenue in accordance with paragraph 606-10-32-25 unless the consideration is in exchange for a distinct good or service. If share-based payment awards are granted to a customer in conjunction with selling goods or services to that customer, see paragraph 606-10-32-25A.
718-10-15-5B
A grantor shall not apply by analogy the aspects of the definition of performance condition that are specific to share-based consideration payable to a customer described in paragraph 606-10-55-88AA to awards granted to employees or nonemployees in which the grantor acquires goods or services to be used or consumed in the grantor's own operations that are solely within the scope of the guidance in this Topic. See also paragraphs 606-10-55-88AB through 55-88AC.
718-10-15-6
Paragraphs 805-30-30-9 through 30-13 provide guidance on determining whether share-based payment awards issued in a business combination are part of the consideration transferred in exchange for the acquiree, and therefore in the scope of Topic 805, or are for continued service to be recognized in the postcombination period in accordance with this Topic.
718-10-15-7
The guidance in the Overall Subtopic does not apply to equity instruments held by an employee stock ownership plan.
718-10-15-8
Paragraph 805-60-25-8 provides guidance on determining whether share-based payment awards issued by a joint venture upon formation are part of the joint venture formation transaction and, therefore, are within the scope of Subtopic 805-60, or are for continued service to be recognized in the postformation period in accordance with this Topic.

20 Glossary
Award
The collective noun for multiple instruments with the same terms and conditions granted at the same time either to a single grantee or to a group of grantees. An award may specify multiple vesting dates, referred to as graded vesting, and different parts of an award may have different expected terms. References to an award also apply to a portion of an award.
Blackout Period
A period of time during which exercise of an equity share option is contractually or legally prohibited.
Broker-Assisted Cashless Exercise
The simultaneous exercise by a grantee of a share option and sale of the shares through a broker (commonly referred to as a broker-assisted exercise).
Generally, under this method of exercise:
aThe grantee authorizes the exercise of an option and the immediate sale of the option shares in the open market.
bOn the same day, the entity notifies the broker of the sale order.
cThe broker executes the sale and notifies the entity of the sales price.
dThe entity determines the minimum statutory tax-withholding requirements.
eBy the settlement day (generally three days later), the entity delivers the stock certificates to the broker.
fOn the settlement day, the broker makes payment to the entity for the exercise price and the minimum statutory withholding taxes and remits the balance of the net sales proceeds to the grantee.
Calculated Value
A measure of the value of a share option or similar instrument determined by substituting the historical volatility of an appropriate industry sector index for the expected volatility of a nonpublic entity's share price in an option-pricing model.
Call Option
A contract that allows the holder to buy a specified quantity of stock from the writer of the contract at a fixed price for a given period. See Option and Purchased Call Option.
Closed-Form Model
A valuation model that uses an equation to produce an estimated fair value. The Black-Scholes-Merton formula is a closed-form model. In the context of option valuation, both closed-form models and lattice models are based on risk-neutral valuation and a contingent claims framework. The payoff of a contingent claim, and thus its value, depends on the value(s) of one or more other assets. The contingent claims framework is a valuation methodology that explicitly recognizes that depending on the path that prices follow, different contingent claims will become more or less valuable.
Combination Award
An award with two or more separate components, each of which can be separately exercised. Each component of the award is actually a separate award, and compensation cost is measured and recognized for each component.
Contract
An agreement between two or more parties that creates enforceable rights and obligations.
Convertible Security
A security that is convertible into another security based on a conversion rate. For example, convertible preferred stock that is convertible into common stock on a two-for-one basis (two shares of common for each share of preferred).
Corporate Joint Venture
A corporation owned and operated by a small group of entities (the joint venturers) as a separate and specific business or project for the mutual benefit of the members of the group. A government may also be a member of the group. The purpose of a corporate joint venture frequently is to share risks and rewards in developing a new market, product or technology; to combine complementary technological knowledge; or to pool resources in developing production or other facilities. A corporate joint venture also usually provides an arrangement under which each joint venturer may participate, directly or indirectly, in the overall management of the joint venture. Joint venturers thus have an interest or relationship other than as passive investors. An entity that is a subsidiary of one of the joint venturers is not a corporate joint venture. The ownership of a corporate joint venture seldom changes, and its equity securities usually are not traded publicly. A noncontrolling interest held by public ownership, however, does not preclude a corporation from being a corporate joint venture.
Customer
A party that has contracted with an entity to obtain goods or services that are an output of the entity's ordinary activities in exchange for consideration.
Derived Service Period
A service period for an award with a market condition that is inferred from the application of certain valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. For example, the derived service period for an award of share options that the employee can exercise only if the share price increases by 25 percent at any time during a 5-year period can be inferred from certain valuation techniques. In a lattice model, that derived service period represents the duration of the median of the distribution of share price paths on which the market condition is satisfied.
Economic Interest in an Entity
Any type or form of pecuniary interest or arrangement that an entity could issue or be a party to, including equity securities; financial instruments with characteristics of equity, liabilities, or both; long-term debt and other debt-financing arrangements; leases; and contractual arrangements such as management contracts, service contracts, or intellectual property licenses.
Employee
An individual over whom the grantor of a share-based compensation award exercises or has the right to exercise sufficient control to establish an employer-employee relationship based on common law as illustrated in case law and currently under U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Revenue Ruling 87-41. A reporting entity based in a foreign jurisdiction would determine whether an employee-employer relationship exists based on the pertinent laws of that jurisdiction. Accordingly, a grantee may be an employee of the reporting entity for accounting purposes but not for tax or other purposes, or vice versa.

A leased individual is deemed to be an employee of the lessee if all of the following requirements are met:
aThe leased individual qualifies as a common law employee of the lessee, and the lessor is contractually required to remit payroll taxes on the compensation paid to the leased individual for the services provided to the lessee.
bThe lessor and lessee agree in writing to all of the following conditions related to the leased individual:
1The lessee has the exclusive right to grant stock compensation to the individual for the employee service to the lessee.
2The lessee has a right to hire, fire, and control the activities of the individual. (The lessor also may have that right.)
3The lessee has the exclusive right to determine the economic value of the services performed by the individual (including wages and the number of units and value of stock compensation granted).
4The individual has the ability to participate in the lessee's employee benefit plans, if any, on the same basis as other comparable employees of the lessee.
5The lessee agrees to and remits to the lessor funds sufficient to cover the complete compensation, including all payroll taxes, of the individual on or before a contractually agreed upon date or dates.

A nonemployee director does not satisfy this definition of employee. Nevertheless, nonemployee directors acting in their role as members of a board of directors are treated as employees if those directors were elected by the employer's shareholders or appointed to a board position that will be filled by shareholder election when the existing term expires. However, that requirement applies only to awards granted to nonemployee directors for their services as directors. Awards granted to nonemployee directors for other services shall be accounted for as nonemployee transactions.

Fair Value
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Grant Date
The date at which a grantor and a grantee reach a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions of a share-based payment award. The grantor becomes contingently obligated on the grant date to issue equity instruments or transfer assets to a grantee who delivers goods or renders services or purchases goods or services as a customer. Awards made under an arrangement that is subject to shareholder approval are not deemed to be granted until that approval is obtained unless approval is essentially a formality (or perfunctory), for example, if management and the members of the board of directors control a majority of the voting power and are supportive of the award. Similarly, individual awards that are subject to approval by the board of directors, management, or both are not deemed to be granted until all such approvals are obtained. If approval is not obtained, compensation cost is reversed.
