10 Overall
05 Overview and Background
General
842-10-05-1
The Leases Topic includes the following Subtopics:
aOverall
bLessee
cLessor
dSale and Leaseback Transactions
eLeveraged Lease Arrangements
842-10-05-2
The Subtopics listed in paragraph 842-10-05-1 establish the requirements of financial accounting and reporting for lessees and lessors.
10 Objectives
General
842-10-10-1
This Topic specifies the accounting for leases. An entity should consider the terms and conditions of the contract and all relevant facts and circumstances when applying this Topic. An entity should apply this Topic consistently to leases with similar characteristics and in similar circumstances.
842-10-10-2
The objective of this Topic is to establish the principles that lessees and lessors shall apply to report useful information to users of financial statements about the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a lease.
15 Scope and Scope Exceptions
General
ShowProposedASURelated Proposed ASUs
842-10-15-1
An entity shall apply this Topic to all leases, including subleases. Because a lease is defined as a contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to control the use of identified property, plant, or equipment (an identified asset) for a period of time in exchange for consideration, this Topic does not apply to any of the following:
aLeases of intangible assets (see Topic 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other).
bLeases to explore for or use minerals, oil, natural gas, and similar nonregenerative resources (see Topics 930, Extractive Activities—Mining, and 932, Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas). This includes the intangible right to explore for those natural resources and rights to use the land in which those natural resources are contained (that is, unless those rights of use include more than the right to explore for natural resources), but not equipment used to explore for the natural resources.
cLeases of biological assets, including timber (see Topic 905, Agriculture).
dLeases of inventory (see Topic 330, Inventory).
eLeases of assets under construction (see Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment).
> Identifying a Lease
842-10-15-2
At inception of a contract, an entity shall determine whether that contract is or contains a lease.
842-10-15-3
A contract is or contains a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of identified property, plant, or equipment (an identified asset) for a period of time in exchange for consideration. A period of time may be described in terms of the amount of use of an identified asset (for example, the number of production units that an item of equipment will be used to produce).
842-10-15-3A
As a practical expedient, an entity that is not a public business entity; a not-for-profit entity that has issued or is a conduit bond obligor for securities that are traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter market; or an employee benefit plan that files or furnishes financial statements with or to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may use the written terms and conditions of a related party arrangement between entities under common control to determine whether that arrangement is or contains a lease. For purposes of determining whether a lease exists under this practical expedient, an entity shall determine whether written terms and conditions convey the practical (as opposed to enforceable) right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. If an entity determines that a lease exists, the entity shall classify and account for that lease on the basis of those written terms and conditions. An entity may elect the practical expedient on an arrangement-by-arrangement basis.
842-10-15-3B
If no written terms or conditions exist, an entity shall not apply the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-3A. Rather, the entity shall determine whether the related party arrangement between entities under common control is or contains a lease in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-3 and, if so, classify and account for that lease on the basis of its legally enforceable terms and conditions in accordance with paragraph 842-10-55-12.
842-10-15-3C
If after an entity has applied the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-3A an arrangement is no longer between entities under common control, the entity shall determine whether a lease exists in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-3.
aIf the arrangement was previously determined to be a lease and continues to be a lease, the entity shall classify and account for the lease on the basis of the enforceable terms and conditions. If the enforceable terms and conditions differ from the written terms and conditions previously used to apply paragraph 842-10-15-3A, the entity shall apply the modification requirements in paragraphs 842-10-25-9 through 25-17 using the enforceable terms and conditions. If the enforceable terms and conditions are the same as the written terms and conditions previously used to apply paragraph 842-10-15-3A, the modification requirements in those paragraphs are not applicable.
bIf the arrangement was previously not determined to be a lease and is determined to be a lease, the entity shall account for the arrangement as a new lease.
cIf the arrangement was previously determined to be a lease and the lease ceases to exist:
1A lessee shall apply the derecognition requirements for fully terminated leases in paragraph 842-20-40-1.
2A lessor with a lease previously classified as a sales-type lease or a direct financing lease shall apply the derecognition requirements for terminated leases in paragraph 842-30-40-2.
3A lessor with a lease previously classified as an operating lease shall derecognize any amounts that would not exist if the arrangement was not accounted for as a lease and account for the arrangement in accordance with other generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
842-10-15-4
To determine whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset (see paragraphs 842-10-15-17 through 15-26) for a period of time, an entity shall assess whether, throughout the period of use, the customer has both of the following:
aThe right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the identified asset (see paragraphs 842-10-15-17 through 15-19)
bThe right to direct the use of the identified asset (see paragraphs 842-10-15-20 through 15-26).
If the customer in the contract is a joint operation or a joint arrangement, an entity shall consider whether the joint operation or joint arrangement has the right to control the use of an identified asset throughout the period of use.
842-10-15-5
If the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for only a portion of the term of the contract, the contract contains a lease for that portion of the term.
842-10-15-6
An entity shall reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease only if the terms and conditions of the contract are changed.
842-10-15-7
In making the determination about whether a contract is or contains a lease, an entity shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances.
842-10-15-8
Paragraph 842-10-55-1 includes a flowchart that depicts the decision process for evaluating whether a contract is or contains a lease.
· > Identified Asset
842-10-15-9
An asset typically is identified by being explicitly specified in a contract. However, an asset also can be identified by being implicitly specified at the time that the asset is made available for use by the customer.
· · > Substantive Substitution Rights
842-10-15-10
Even if an asset is specified, a customer does not have the right to use an identified asset if the supplier has the substantive right to substitute the asset throughout the period of use. A supplier's right to substitute an asset is substantive only if both of the following conditions exist:
aThe supplier has the practical ability to substitute alternative assets throughout the period of use (for example, the customer cannot prevent the supplier from substituting an asset, and alternative assets are readily available to the supplier or could be sourced by the supplier within a reasonable period of time).
bThe supplier would benefit economically from the exercise of its right to substitute the asset (that is, the economic benefits associated with substituting the asset are expected to exceed the costs associated with substituting the asset).
842-10-15-11
An entity's evaluation of whether a supplier's substitution right is substantive is based on facts and circumstances at inception of the contract and shall exclude consideration of future events that, at inception, are not considered likely to occur. Examples of future events that, at inception of the contract, would not be considered likely to occur and, thus, should be excluded from the evaluation include, but are not limited to, the following:
aAn agreement by a future customer to pay an above-market rate for use of the asset
bThe introduction of new technology that is not substantially developed at inception of the contract
cA substantial difference between the customer's use of the asset, or the performance of the asset and the use or performance considered likely at inception of the contract
dA substantial difference between the market price of the asset during the period of use and the market price considered likely at inception of the contract.
842-10-15-12
If the asset is located at the customer's premises or elsewhere, the costs associated with substitution are generally higher than when located at the supplier's premises and, therefore, are more likely to exceed the benefits associated with substituting the asset.
842-10-15-13
If the supplier has a right or an obligation to substitute the asset only on or after either a particular date or the occurrence of a specified event, the supplier does not have the practical ability to substitute alternative assets throughout the period of use.
842-10-15-14
The supplier's right or obligation to substitute an asset for repairs or maintenance, if the asset is not operating properly, or if a technical upgrade becomes available, does not preclude the customer from having the right to use an identified asset.
842-10-15-15
If the customer cannot readily determine whether the supplier has a substantive substitution right, the customer shall presume that any substitution right is not substantive.
· · > Portions of Assets
842-10-15-16
A capacity portion of an asset is an identified asset if it is physically distinct (for example, a floor of a building or a segment of a pipeline that connects a single customer to the larger pipeline). A capacity or other portion of an asset that is not physically distinct (for example, a capacity portion of a fiber optic cable) is not an identified asset, unless it represents substantially all of the capacity of the asset and thereby provides the customer with the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset.
· > Right to Control the Use of the Identified Asset
· · > Right to Obtain the Economic Benefits from the Use of the Identified Asset
842-10-15-17
To control the use of an identified asset, a customer is required to have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use (for example, by having exclusive use of the asset throughout that period). A customer can obtain economic benefits from use of an asset directly or indirectly in many ways, such as by using, holding, or subleasing the asset. The economic benefits from use of an asset include its primary output and by-products (including potential cash flows derived from these items) and other economic benefits from using the asset that could be realized from a commercial transaction with a third party.
842-10-15-18
When assessing the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of an asset, an entity shall consider the economic benefits that result from use of the asset within the defined scope of a customer's right to use the asset in the contract (see paragraph 842-10-15-23). For example:
aIf a contract limits the use of a motor vehicle to only one particular territory during the period of use, an entity shall consider only the economic benefits from use of the motor vehicle within that territory and not beyond.
bIf a contract specifies that a customer can drive a motor vehicle only up to a particular number of miles during the period of use, an entity shall consider only the economic benefits from use of the motor vehicle for the permitted mileage and not beyond.
842-10-15-19
If a contract requires a customer to pay the supplier or another party a portion of the cash flows derived from use of an asset as consideration, those cash flows paid as consideration shall be considered to be part of the economic benefits that the customer obtains from use of the asset. For example, if a customer is required to pay the supplier a percentage of sales from use of retail space as consideration for that use, that requirement does not prevent the customer from having the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the retail space. That is because the cash flows arising from those sales are considered to be economic benefits that the customer obtains from use of the retail space, a portion of which it then pays to the supplier as consideration for the right to use that space.
· · > Right to Direct the Use of the Identified Asset
842-10-15-20
A customer has the right to direct the use of an identified asset throughout the period of use in either of the following situations:
aThe customer has the right to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use (as described in paragraphs 842-10-15-24 through 15-26).
bThe relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used are predetermined (see paragraph 842-10-15-21) and at least one of the following conditions exists:
1The customer has the right to operate the asset (or to direct others to operate the asset in a manner that it determines) throughout the period of use without the supplier having the right to change those operating instructions.
2The customer designed the asset (or specific aspects of the asset) in a way that predetermines how and for what purpose the asset will be used throughout the period of use.
842-10-15-21
The relevant decisions about how and for what purpose an asset is used can be predetermined in a number of ways. For example, the relevant decisions can be predetermined by the design of the asset or by contractual restrictions on the use of the asset.
842-10-15-22
In assessing whether a customer has the right to direct the use of an asset, an entity shall consider only rights to make decisions about the use of the asset during the period of use unless the customer designed the asset (or specific aspects of the asset) in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-20(b)(2). Consequently, unless that condition exists, an entity shall not consider decisions that are predetermined before the period of use. For example, if a customer is able only to specify the output of an asset before the period of use, the customer does not have the right to direct the use of that asset. The ability to specify the output in a contract before the period of use, without any other decision-making rights relating to the use of the asset, gives a customer the same rights as any customer that purchases goods or services.
· · · > Protective Rights
842-10-15-23
A contract may include terms and conditions designed to protect the supplier's interest in the asset or other assets, to protect its personnel, or to ensure the supplier's compliance with laws or regulations. These are examples of protective rights. For example, a contract may specify the maximum amount of use of an asset or limit where or when the customer can use the asset, may require a customer to follow particular operating practices, or may require a customer to inform the supplier of changes in how an asset will be used. Protective rights typically define the scope of the customer's right of use but do not, in isolation, prevent the customer from having the right to direct the use of an asset.
· · · > How and for What Purpose an Asset Is Used
842-10-15-24
A customer has the right to direct how and for what purpose an asset is used throughout the period of use if, within the scope of its right of use defined in the contract, it can change how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout that period. In making this assessment, an entity considers the decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and for what purpose an asset is used throughout the period of use. Decision-making rights are relevant when they affect the economic benefits to be derived from use. The decision-making rights that are most relevant are likely to be different for different contracts, depending on the nature of the asset and the terms and conditions of the contract.
842-10-15-25
Examples of decision-making rights that, depending on the circumstances, grant the right to direct how and for what purpose an asset is used, within the defined scope of the customer's right of use, include the following:
aThe right to change the type of output that is produced by the asset (for example, deciding whether to use a shipping container to transport goods or for storage, or deciding on the mix of products sold from a retail unit)
bThe right to change when the output is produced (for example, deciding when an item of machinery or a power plant will be used)
cThe right to change where the output is produced (for example, deciding on the destination of a truck or a ship or deciding where a piece of equipment is used or deployed)
dThe right to change whether the output is produced and the quantity of that output (for example, deciding whether to produce energy from a power plant and how much energy to produce from that power plant).
842-10-15-26
Examples of decision-making rights that do not grant the right to direct how and for what purpose an asset is used include rights that are limited to operating or maintaining the asset. Although rights such as those to operate or maintain an asset often are essential to the efficient use of an asset, they are not rights to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used and often are dependent on the decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used. Such rights (that is, to operate or maintain the asset) can be held by the customer or the supplier. The supplier often holds those rights to protect its investment in the asset. However, rights to operate an asset may grant the customer the right to direct the use of the asset if the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used are predetermined (see paragraph 842-10-15-20(b)(1)).
842-10-15-27
See Examples 1 through 10 (paragraphs 842-10-55-41 through 55-130) for illustrations of the requirements for identifying a lease.
> Separating Components of a Contract
842-10-15-28
After determining that a contract contains a lease in accordance with paragraphs 842-10-15-2 through 15-27, an entity shall identify the separate lease components within the contract. An entity shall consider the right to use an underlying asset to be a separate lease component (that is, separate from any other lease components of the contract) if both of the following criteria are met:
aThe lessee can benefit from the right of use either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the lessee. Readily available resources are goods or services that are sold or leased separately (by the lessor or other suppliers) or resources that the lessee already has obtained (from the lessor or from other transactions or events).
bThe right of use is neither highly dependent on nor highly interrelated with the other right(s) to use underlying assets in the contract. A lessee's right to use an underlying asset is highly dependent on or highly interrelated with another right to use an underlying asset if each right of use significantly affects the other.
842-10-15-29
The guidance in paragraph 842-10-15-28 notwithstanding, to classify and account for a lease of land and other assets, an entity shall account for the right to use land as a separate lease component unless the accounting effect of doing so would be insignificant (for example, separating the land element would have no effect on lease classification of any lease component or the amount recognized for the land lease component would be insignificant).
842-10-15-30
The consideration in the contract shall be allocated to each separate lease component and nonlease component of the contract (see paragraphs 842-10-15-33 through 15-37 for lessee allocation guidance and paragraphs 842-10-15-38 through 15-42C for lessor allocation guidance). Components of a contract include only those items or activities that transfer a good or service to the lessee. Consequently, the following are not components of a contract and do not receive an allocation of the consideration in the contract:
aAdministrative tasks to set up a contract or initiate the lease that do not transfer a good or service to the lessee
bReimbursement or payment of the lessor's costs. For example, a lessor may incur various costs in its role as a lessor or as owner of the underlying asset. A requirement for the lessee to pay those costs, whether directly to a third party or as a reimbursement to the lessor, does not transfer a good or service to the lessee separate from the right to use the underlying asset.
842-10-15-31
An entity shall account for each separate lease component separately from the nonlease components of the contract (that is, unless a lessee makes the accounting policy election described in paragraph 842-10-15-37or unless a lessor makes the accounting policy election in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-42A). Nonlease components are not within the scope of this Topic and shall be accounted for in accordance with other Topics.
842-10-15-32
See Examples 11 through 14 (paragraphs 842-10-55-131 through 55-158) for illustrations of the requirements for allocating consideration to components of a contract.
· > Lessee
842-10-15-33
A lessee shall allocate (that is, unless the lessee makes the accounting policy election described in paragraph 842-10-15-37) the consideration in the contract to the separate lease components determined in accordance with paragraphs 842-10-15-28 through 15-31 and the nonlease components as follows:
aThe lessee shall determine the relative standalone price of the separate lease components and the nonlease components on the basis of their observable standalone prices. If observable standalone prices are not readily available, the lessee shall estimate the standalone prices, maximizing the use of observable information. A residual estimation approach may be appropriate if the standalone price for a component is highly variable or uncertain.
bThe lessee shall allocate the consideration in the contract on a relative standalone price basis to the separate lease components and the nonlease components of the contract.
Initial direct costs should be allocated to the separate lease components on the same basis as the lease payments.
842-10-15-34
A price is observable if it is the price that either the lessor or similar suppliers sell similar lease or nonlease components on a standalone basis.
842-10-15-35
The consideration in the contract for a lessee includes all of the payments described in paragraph 842-10-30-5, as well as all of the following payments that will be made during the lease term:
aAny fixed payments (for example, monthly service charges) or in substance fixed payments, less any incentives paid or payable to the lessee, other than those included in paragraph 842-10-30-5
bAny other variable payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate at the commencement date.
842-10-15-36
A lessee shall remeasure and reallocate the consideration in the contract upon either of the following:
aA remeasurement of the lease liability (for example, a remeasurement resulting from a change in the lease term or a change in the assessment of whether a lessee is or is not reasonably certain to exercise an option to purchase the underlying asset) (see paragraph 842-20-35-4)
bThe effective date of a contract modification that is not accounted for as a separate contract (see paragraph 842-10-25-8).
842-10-15-37
As a practical expedient, a lessee may, as an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset, choose not to separate nonlease components from lease components and instead to account for each separate lease component and the nonlease components associated with that lease component as a single lease component.
· > Lessor
842-10-15-38
A lessor shall allocate (unless the lessor makes the accounting policy election in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-42A) the consideration in the contract to the separate lease components and the nonlease components using the requirements in paragraphs 606-10-32-28 through 32-41. A lessor also shall allocate (unless the lessor makes the accounting policy election in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-42A) any capitalized costs (for example, initial direct costs or contract costs capitalized in accordance with Subtopic 340-40 on other assets and deferred costs—contracts with customers) to the separate lease components or nonlease components to which those costs relate.
842-10-15-39
The consideration in the contract for a lessor includes all of the amounts described in paragraph 842-10-15-35 and any other variable payment amounts that would be included in the transaction price in accordance with the guidance on variable consideration in Topic 606 on revenue from contracts with customers that specifically relates to either of the following:
aThe lessor's efforts to transfer one or more goods or services that are not leases
bAn outcome from transferring one or more goods or services that are not leases.
Any variable payment amounts accounted for as consideration in the contract shall be allocated entirely to the nonlease component(s) to which the variable payment specifically relates if doing so would be consistent with the transaction price allocation objective in paragraph 606-10-32-28.
842-10-15-39A
A lessor may make an accounting policy election to exclude from the consideration in the contract and from variable payments not included in the consideration in the contract all taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific lease revenue-producing transaction and collected by the lessor from a lessee (for example, sales, use, value added, and some excise taxes). Taxes assessed on a lessor's total gross receipts or on the lessor as owner of the underlying asset shall be excluded from the scope of this election. A lessor that makes this election shall exclude from the consideration in the contract and from variable payments not included in the consideration in the contract all taxes within the scope of the election and shall comply with the disclosure requirements in paragraph 842-30-50-14.
842-10-15-40
If the terms of a variable payment amount other than those in paragraph 842-10-15-35 relate to a lease component, even partially, the lessor shall not recognize those payments before the changes in facts and circumstances on which the variable payment is based occur (for example, when the lessee's sales on which the amount of the variable payment depends occur). When the changes in facts and circumstances on which the variable payment is based occur, the lessor shall allocate those payments to the lease and nonlease components of the contract. The allocation shall be on the same basis as the initial allocation of the consideration in the contract or the most recent modification not accounted for as a separate contract unless the variable payment meets the criteria in paragraph 606-10-32-40 to be allocated only to the lease component(s). Variable payment amounts allocated to the lease component(s) shall be recognized as income in profit or loss in accordance with this Topic, while variable payment amounts allocated to nonlease component(s) shall be recognized in accordance with other Topics (for example, Topic 606 on revenue from contracts with customers).
842-10-15-40A
The guidance in paragraph 842-10-15-40 notwithstanding, a lessor shall exclude from variable payments lessor costs paid by a lessee directly to a third party. However, costs excluded from the consideration in the contract that are paid by a lessor directly to a third party and are reimbursed by a lessee are considered lessor costs that shall be accounted for by the lessor as variable payments (this requirement does not preclude a lessor from making the accounting policy election in paragraph 842-10-15-39A).
842-10-15-41
A lessor shall remeasure and reallocate the remaining consideration in the contract when there is a contract modification that is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8.
842-10-15-42
If the consideration in the contract changes, a lessor shall allocate those changes in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs 606-10-32-42 through 32-45.
842-10-15-42A
As a practical expedient, a lessor may, as an accounting policy election, by class of underlying asset, choose to not separate nonlease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the nonlease components associated with that lease component as a single component if the nonlease components otherwise would be accounted for under Topic 606 on revenue from contracts with customers and both of the following are met:
aThe timing and pattern of transfer for the lease component and nonlease components associated with that lease component are the same.
bThe lease component, if accounted for separately, would be classified as an operating lease in accordance with paragraphs 842-10-25-2 through 25-3A.
842-10-15-42B
A lessor that elects the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-42A shall account for the combined component:
aAs a single performance obligation entirely in accordance with Topic 606 if the nonlease component or components are the predominant component(s) of the combined component. In applying Topic 606, the entity shall do both of the following:
1Use the same measure of progress as used for applying paragraph 842-10-15-42A(a)
2Account for all variable payments related to any good or service, including the lease, that is part of the combined component in accordance with the guidance on variable consideration in Topic 606.
bOtherwise, as an operating lease entirely in accordance with this Topic. In applying this Topic, the entity shall account for all variable payments related to any good or service that is part of the combined component as variable lease payments.
In determining whether a nonlease component or components are the predominant component(s) of a combined component, a lessor shall consider whether the lessee would be reasonably expected to ascribe more value to the nonlease component(s) than to the lease component.
842-10-15-42C
A lessor that elects the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-42A shall combine all nonlease components that qualify for the practical expedient with the associated lease component and shall account for the combined component in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-42B. A lessor shall separately account for nonlease components that do not qualify for the practical expedient. Accordingly, a lessor shall apply paragraphs 842-10-15-38 through 15-42 to account for nonlease components that do not qualify for the practical expedient.
> Other Considerations
842-10-15-43
Paragraph 815-10-15-79 explains that leases that are within the scope of this Topic are not derivative instruments subject to Subtopic 815-10 on derivatives and hedging although a derivative instrument embedded in a lease may be subject to the requirements of Section 815-15-25. Paragraph 815-10-15-80 explains that residual value guarantees that are subject to the guidance in this Topic are not subject to the guidance in Subtopic 815-10. Paragraph 815-10-15-81 requires that a third-party residual value guarantor consider the guidance in Subtopic 815-10 for all residual value guarantees that it provides to determine whether they are derivative instruments and whether they qualify for any of the scope exceptions in that Subtopic.
20 Glossary
Acquiree
The business or businesses that the acquirer obtains control of in a business combination. This term also includes a nonprofit activity or business that a not-for-profit acquirer obtains control of in an acquisition by a not-for-profit entity.
Acquirer
The entity that obtains control of the acquiree. However, in a business combination in which a variable interest entity (VIE) is acquired, the primary beneficiary of that entity always is the acquirer.
Clock ImagePENDING CONTENTQuestion Image
Transition date:Pending FASB P December 16, 2026; Pending FASB N December 16, 2026Transition guidance:805-10-65-5
The entity that obtains control of the acquiree.See paragraphs 805-10-25-4 through 25-5 for guidance on determining the acquirer.
Acquisition by a Not-for-Profit Entity
A transaction or other event in which a not-for-profit acquirer obtains control of one or more nonprofit activities or businesses and initially recognizes their assets and liabilities in the acquirer's financial statements. When applicable guidance in Topic 805 is applied by a not-for-profit entity, the term business combination has the same meaning as this term has for a for-profit entity. Likewise, a reference to business combinations in guidance that links to Topic 805 has the same meaning as a reference to acquisitions by not-for-profit entities.
Advance Refunding
A transaction involving the issuance of new debt to replace existing debt with the proceeds from the new debt placed in trust or otherwise restricted to retire the existing debt at a determinable future date or dates.
Business
Paragraphs 805-10-55-3A through 55-6 and 805-10-55-8 through 55-9 define what is considered a business.
Business Combination
A transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of one or more businesses. Transactions sometimes referred to as true mergers or mergers of equals also are business combinations. See also Acquisition by a Not-for-Profit Entity.
Commencement Date of the Lease (Commencement Date)
The date on which a lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by a lessee. See paragraphs 842-10-55-19 through 55-21 for implementation guidance on the commencement date.
Consideration in the Contract
See paragraph 842-10-15-35 for what constitutes the consideration in the contract for lessees and paragraph 842-10-15-39 for what constitutes consideration in the contract for lessors.
Contract
An agreement between two or more parties that creates enforceable rights and obligations.
Corporate Joint Venture
A corporation owned and operated by a small group of entities (the joint venturers) as a separate and specific business or project for the mutual benefit of the members of the group. A government may also be a member of the group. The purpose of a corporate joint venture frequently is to share risks and rewards in developing a new market, product or technology; to combine complementary technological knowledge; or to pool resources in developing production or other facilities. A corporate joint venture also usually provides an arrangement under which each joint venturer may participate, directly or indirectly, in the overall management of the joint venture. Joint venturers thus have an interest or relationship other than as passive investors. An entity that is a subsidiary of one of the joint venturers is not a corporate joint venture. The ownership of a corporate joint venture seldom changes, and its stock is usually not traded publicly. A noncontrolling interest held by public ownership, however, does not preclude a corporation from being a corporate joint venture.
Direct Financing Lease
From the perspective of a lessor, a lease that meets none of the criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-2 but meets the criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-3(b)and is not an operating lease in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-3A.
Direct Financing Leases
Glossary term superseded by Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02.
Discount Rate for the Lease
For a lessee, the discount rate for the lease is the rate implicit in the lease unless that rate cannot be readily determined. In that case, the lessee is required to use its incremental borrowing rate.
For a lessor, the discount rate for the lease is the rate implicit in the lease.
Economic Life
Either the period over which an asset is expected to be economically usable by one or more users or the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from an asset by one or more users.
Effective Date of the Modification
The date that a lease modification is approved by both the lessee and the lessor.
Fair Value
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Finance Lease
From the perspective of a lessee, a lease that meets one or more of the criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-2.
Fiscal Funding Clause
A provision by which the lease is cancelable if the legislature or other funding authority does not appropriate the funds necessary for the governmental unit to fulfill its obligations under the lease agreement.
Incremental Borrowing Rate
The rate of interest that a lessee would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.
Initial Direct Costs
Incremental costs of a lease that would not have been incurred if the lease had not been obtained.
Inventory
The aggregate of those items of tangible personal property that have any of the following characteristics:
aHeld for sale in the ordinary course of business
bIn process of production for such sale
cTo be currently consumed in the production of goods or services to be available for sale.
The term inventory embraces goods awaiting sale (the merchandise of a trading concern and the finished goods of a manufacturer), goods in the course of production (work in process), and goods to be consumed directly or indirectly in production (raw materials and supplies). This definition of inventories excludes long-term assets subject to depreciation accounting, or goods which, when put into use, will be so classified. The fact that a depreciable asset is retired from regular use and held for sale does not indicate that the item should be classified as part of the inventory. Raw materials and supplies purchased for production may be used or consumed for the construction of long-term assets or other purposes not related to production, but the fact that inventory items representing a small portion of the total may not be absorbed ultimately in the production process does not require separate classification. By trade practice, operating materials and supplies of certain types of entities such as oil producers are usually treated as inventory.
Joint Venture
An entity owned and operated by a small group of businesses (the joint venturers) as a separate and specific business or project for the mutual benefit of the members of the group. A government may also be a member of the group. The purpose of a joint venture frequently is to share risks and rewards in developing a new market, product, or technology; to combine complementary technological knowledge; or to pool resources in developing production or other facilities. A joint venture also usually provides an arrangement under which each joint venturer may participate, directly or indirectly, in the overall management of the joint venture. Joint venturers thus have an interest or relationship other than as passive investors. An entity that is a subsidiary of one of the joint venturers is not a joint venture. The ownership of a joint venture seldom changes, and its equity interests usually are not traded publicly. A minority public ownership, however, does not preclude an entity from being a joint venture. As distinguished from a corporate joint venture, a joint venture is not limited to corporate entities.
Lease
A contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to control the use of identified property, plant, or equipment (an identified asset) for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Lease Liability
A lessee's obligation to make the lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis.
Lease Modification
A change to the terms and conditions of a contract that results in a change in the scope of or the consideration for a lease (for example, a change to the terms and conditions of the contract that adds or terminates the right to use one or more underlying assets or extends or shortens the contractual lease term).
Lease Payments
See paragraph 842-10-30-5 for what constitutes lease payments from the perspective of a lessee and a lessor.
Lease Receivable
A lessor's right to receive lease payments arising from a sales-type lease or a direct financing lease plus any amount that a lessor expects to derive from the underlying asset following the end of the lease term to the extent that it is guaranteed by the lessee or any other third party unrelated to the lessor, measured on a discounted basis.
Lease Term
The noncancellable period for which a lessee has the right to use an underlying asset, together with all of the following:
aPeriods covered by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option
bPeriods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise that option
cPeriods covered by an option to extend (or not to terminate) the lease in which exercise of the option is controlled by the lessor.
Legal Entity
Any legal structure used to conduct activities or to hold assets. Some examples of such structures are corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, grantor trusts, and other trusts.
Lessee
An entity that enters into a contract to obtain the right to use an underlying asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Lessor
An entity that enters into a contract to provide the right to use an underlying asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Leveraged Lease
From the perspective of a lessor, a lease that was classified as a leveraged lease in accordance with the leases guidance in effect before the effective date and for which the commencement date is before the effective date.
Market Participants
Buyers and sellers in the principal (or most advantageous) market for the asset or liability that have all of the following characteristics:
aThey are independent of each other, that is, they are not related parties, although the price in a related-party transaction may be used as an input to a fair value measurement if the reporting entity has evidence that the transaction was entered into at market terms
bThey are knowledgeable, having a reasonable understanding about the asset or liability and the transaction using all available information, including information that might be obtained through due diligence efforts that are usual and customary
cThey are able to enter into a transaction for the asset or liability
dThey are willing to enter into a transaction for the asset or liability, that is, they are motivated but not forced or otherwise compelled to do so.
Net Investment in the Lease
For a sales-type lease, the sum of the lease receivable and the unguaranteed residual asset.
For a direct financing lease, the sum of the lease receivable and the unguaranteed residual asset, net of any deferred selling profit.
Not-for-Profit Entity
An entity that possesses the following characteristics, in varying degrees, that distinguish it from a business entity:
aContributions of significant amounts of resources from resource providers who do not expect commensurate or proportionate pecuniary return
bOperating purposes other than to provide goods or services at a profit
cAbsence of ownership interests like those of business entities.
Entities that clearly fall outside this definition include the following:
aAll investor-owned entities
bEntities that provide dividends, lower costs, or other economic benefits directly and proportionately to their owners, members, or participants, such as mutual insurance entities, credit unions, farm and rural electric cooperatives, and employee benefit plans.
Operating Lease
From the perspective of a lessee, any lease other than a finance lease.
From the perspective of a lessor, any lease other than a sales-type lease or a direct financing lease.
Orderly Transaction
A transaction that assumes exposure to the market for a period before the measurement date to allow for marketing activities that are usual and customary for transactions involving such assets or liabilities; it is not a forced transaction (for example, a forced liquidation or distress sale).
Penalty
Any requirement that is imposed or can be imposed on the lessee by the lease agreement or by factors outside the lease agreement to do any of the following:
aDisburse cash
bIncur or assume a liability
cPerform services
dSurrender or transfer an asset or rights to an asset or otherwise forego an economic benefit, or suffer an economic detriment. Factors to consider in determining whether an economic detriment may be incurred include, but are not limited to, all of the following:
1The uniqueness of purpose or location of the underlying asset
2The availability of a comparable replacement asset
3The relative importance or significance of the underlying asset to the continuation of the lessee's line of business or service to its customers
4The existence of leasehold improvements or other assets whose value would be impaired by the lessee vacating or discontinuing use of the underlying asset
5Adverse tax consequences
6The ability or willingness of the lessee to bear the cost associated with relocation or replacement of the underlying asset at market rental rates or to tolerate other parties using the underlying asset.
Period of Use
The total period of time that an asset is used to fulfill a contract with a customer (including the sum of any nonconsecutive periods of time).
Probable
The future event or events are likely to occur.
Public Business Entity
A public business entity is a business entity meeting any one of the criteria below. Neither a not-for-profit entity nor an employee benefit plan is a business entity.
aIt is required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to file or furnish financial statements, or does file or furnish financial statements (including voluntary filers), with the SEC (including other entities whose financial statements or financial information are required to be or are included in a filing).
bIt is required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Act), as amended, or rules or regulations promulgated under the Act, to file or furnish financial statements with a regulatory agency other than the SEC.
cIt is required to file or furnish financial statements with a foreign or domestic regulatory agency in preparation for the sale of or for purposes of issuing securities that are not subject to contractual restrictions on transfer.
dIt has issued, or is a conduit bond obligor for, securities that are traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter market.
eIt has one or more securities that are not subject to contractual restrictions on transfer, and it is required by law, contract, or regulation to prepare U.S. GAAP financial statements (including notes) and make them publicly available on a periodic basis (for example, interim or annual periods). An entity must meet both of these conditions to meet this criterion.
An entity may meet the definition of a public business entity solely because its financial statements or financial information is included in another entity's filing with the SEC. In that case, the entity is only a public business entity for purposes of financial statements that are filed or furnished with the SEC.
Rate Implicit in the Lease
The rate of interest that, at a given date, causes the aggregate present value of (a) the lease paymentsand (b) the amount that a lessor expects to derive from the underlying asset following the end of the lease termto equal the sum of (1) the fair value of the underlying asset minus any related investment tax credit retained and expected to be realized by the lessor and (2) any deferred initial direct costs of the lessor. However, if the rate determined in accordance with the preceding sentence is less than zero, a rate implicit in the lease of zero shall be used.
Related Parties
Related parties include:
aAffiliates of the entity
bEntities for which investments in their equity securities would be required, absent the election of the fair value option under the Fair Value Option Subsection of Section 825-10-15, to be accounted for by the equity method by the investing entity
cTrusts for the benefit of employees, such as pension and profit-sharing trusts that are managed by or under the trusteeship of management
dPrincipal owners of the entity and members of their immediate families
eManagement of the entity and members of their immediate families
fOther parties with which the entity may deal if one party controls or can significantly influence the management or operating policies of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests
gOther parties that can significantly influence the management or operating policies of the transacting parties or that have an ownership interest in one of the transacting parties and can significantly influence the other to an extent that one or more of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests.
Remote
The chance of the future event or events occurring is slight.
Residual Value Guarantee
A guarantee made to a lessor that the value of an underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of a lease will be at least a specified amount.
Right-of-Use Asset
An asset that represents a lessee's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term.
Sales-Type Lease
From the perspective of a lessor, a lease that meets one or more of the criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-2 and is not an operating lease in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-3A.
Security
A share, participation, or other interest in property or in an entity of the issuer or an obligation of the issuer that has all of the following characteristics:
aIt is either represented by an instrument issued in bearer or registered form or, if not represented by an instrument, is registered in books maintained to record transfers by or on behalf of the issuer.
bIt is of a type commonly dealt in on securities exchanges or markets or, when represented by an instrument, is commonly recognized in any area in which it is issued or dealt in as a medium for investment.
cIt either is one of a class or series or by its terms is divisible into a class or series of shares, participations, interests, or obligations.
Selling Profit or Selling Loss
At the commencement date, selling profit or selling loss equals:
aThe fair value of the underlying asset or the sum of (1) the lease receivable and (2) any lease payments prepaid by the lessee, if lower; minus
bThe carrying amount of the underlying asset net of any unguaranteed residual asset; minus
cAny deferred initial direct costs of the lessor.
Short-Term Lease
A lease that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less and does not include an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
Standalone Price
The price at which a customer would purchase a component of a contract separately.
Sublease
A transaction in which an underlying asset is re-leased by the lessee (or intermediate lessor) to a third party (the sublessee) and the original (or head) lease between the lessor and the lessee remains in effect.
Underlying Asset
An asset that is the subject of a lease for which a right to use that asset has been conveyed to a lessee. The underlying asset could be a physically distinct portion of a single asset.
Unguaranteed Residual Asset
The amount that a lessor expects to derive from the underlying asset following the end of the lease term that is not guaranteed by the lessee or any other third party unrelated to the lessor, measured on a discounted basis.
Variable Interest Entity
A legal entity subject to consolidation according to the provisions of the Variable Interest Entities Subsections of Subtopic 810-10.
Variable Lease Payments
Payments made by a lessee to a lessor for the right to use an underlying asset that vary because of changes in facts or circumstances occurring after the commencement date, other than the passage of time.
Warranty
A guarantee for which the underlying is related to the performance (regarding function, not price) of nonfinancial assets that are owned by the guaranteed party. The obligation may be incurred in connection with the sale of goods or services; if so, it may require further performance by the seller after the sale has taken place.
25 Recognition
General
> Lease Classification
842-10-25-1
An entity shall classify each separate lease component at the commencement date. An entity shall not reassess the lease classification after the commencement date unless the contract is modified and the modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8. In addition, a lessee also shall reassess the lease classification after the commencement date if there is a change in the lease term or the assessment of whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to purchase the underlying asset. When an entity (that is, a lessee or lessor) is required to reassess lease classification, the entity shall reassess classification of the lease on the basis of the facts and circumstances (and the modified terms and conditions, if applicable) as of the date the reassessment is required (for example, on the basis of the fair value and the remaining economic life of the underlying asset as of the date there is a change in the lease term or in the assessment of a lessee option to purchase the underlying asset or as of the effective date of a modification not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8).
842-10-25-2
A lessee shall classify a lease as a finance lease and a lessor shall classify a lease as a sales-type lease when the lease meets any of the following criteria at lease commencement:
aThe lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term.
bThe lease grants the lessee an option to purchase the underlying asset that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise.
cThe lease term is for the major part of the remaining economic life of the underlying asset. However, if the commencement date falls at or near the end of the economic life of the underlying asset, this criterion shall not be used for purposes of classifying the lease.
dThe present value of the sum of the lease payments and any residual value guaranteed by the lessee that is not already reflected in the lease payments in accordance with paragraph 842-10-30-5(f) equals or exceeds substantially all of the fair value of the underlying asset.
eThe underlying asset is of such a specialized nature that it is expected to have no alternative use to the lessor at the end of the lease term.
842-10-25-3
When none of the criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-2 are met:
aA lessee shall classify the lease as an operating lease.
bA lessor shall classify the lease as either a direct financing lease or an operating lease. A lessor shall classify the lease as an operating lease unless both of the following criteria are met, in which case the lessor shall classify the lease as a direct financing lease:
1The present value of the sum of the lease payments and any residual value guaranteed by the lessee that is not already reflected in the lease payments in accordance with paragraph 842-10-30-5(f) and/or any other third party unrelated to the lessor equals or exceeds substantially all of the fair value of the underlying asset.
2It is probable that the lessor will collect the lease payments plus any amount necessary to satisfy a residual value guarantee.
842-10-25-3A
Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs 842-10-25-2 through 25-3, a lessor shall classify a lease with variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate as an operating lease at lease commencement if classifying the lease as a sales-type lease or a direct financing lease would result in the recognition of a selling loss.
842-10-25-4
A lessor shall assess the criteria in paragraphs 842-10-25-2(d) and 842-10-25-3(b)(1) using the rate implicit in the lease. For purposes of assessing the criterion in paragraph 842-10-25-2(d), a lessor shall assume that no initial direct costs will be deferred if, at the commencement date, the fair value of the underlying asset is different from its carrying amount.
842-10-25-5
If a single lease component contains the right to use more than one underlying asset (see paragraphs 842-10-15-28 through 15-29), an entity shall consider the remaining economic life of the predominant asset in the lease component for purposes of applying the criterion in paragraph 842-10-25-2(c).
842-10-25-6
When classifying a sublease, an entity shall classify the sublease with reference to the underlying asset (for example, the item of property, plant, or equipment that is the subject of the lease) rather than with reference to the right-of-use asset.
842-10-25-7
See paragraphs 842-10-55-2 through 55-15 for implementation guidance on lease classification.
> Lease Modifications
842-10-25-8
An entity shall account for a modification to a contract as a separate contract (that is, separate from the original contract) when both of the following conditions are present:
aThe modification grants the lessee an additional right of use not included in the original lease (for example, the right to use an additional asset).
bThe lease payments increase commensurate with the standalone price for the additional right of use, adjusted for the circumstances of the particular contract. For example, the standalone price for the lease of one floor of an office building in which the lessee already leases other floors in that building may be different from the standalone price of a similar floor in a different office building, because it was not necessary for a lessor to incur costs that it would have incurred for a new lessee.
842-10-25-9
If a lease is modified and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8, the entity shall reassess the classification of the lease in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-1 as of the effective date of the modification.
842-10-25-10
An entity shall account for initial direct costs, lease incentives, and any other payments made to or by the entity in connection with a modification to a lease in the same manner as those items would be accounted for in connection with a new lease.
· > Lessee
842-10-25-11
A lessee shall reallocate the remaining consideration in the contract and remeasure the lease liability using a discount rate for the lease determined at the effective date of the modification if a contract modification does any of the following:
aGrants the lessee an additional right of use not included in the original contract (and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8)
bExtends or reduces the term of an existing lease (for example, changes the lease term from five to eight years or vice versa), other than through the exercise of a contractual option to extend or terminate the lease (as described in paragraph 842-20-35-5)
cFully or partially terminates an existing lease (for example, reduces the assets subject to the lease)
dChanges the consideration in the contract only.
842-10-25-12
In the case of (a), (b), or (d) in paragraph 842-10-25-11, the lessee shall recognize the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability for the modified lease as an adjustment to the corresponding right-of-use asset.
842-10-25-13
In the case of (c) in paragraph 842-10-25-11, the lessee shall decrease the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset on a basis proportionate to the full or partial termination of the existing lease. Any difference between the reduction in the lease liability and the proportionate reduction in the right-of-use asset shall be recognized as a gain or a loss at the effective date of the modification.
842-10-25-14
If a finance lease is modified and the modified lease is classified as an operating lease, any difference between the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset after recording the adjustment required by paragraph 842-10-25-12 or 842-10-25-13 and the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset that would result from applying the initial operating right-of-use asset measurement guidance in paragraph 842-20-30-5 to the modified lease shall be accounted for in the same manner as a rent prepayment or a lease incentive.
· > Lessor
842-10-25-15
If an operating lease is modified and the modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8, the lessor shall account for the modification as if it were a termination of the existing lease and the creation of a new lease that commences on the effective date of the modification as follows:
aIf the modified lease is classified as an operating lease, the lessor shall consider any prepaid or accrued lease rentals relating to the original lease as a part of the lease payments for the modified lease.
bIf the modified lease is classified as a direct financing lease or a sales-type lease, the lessor shall derecognize any deferred rent liability or accrued rent asset and adjust the selling profit or selling loss accordingly.
842-10-25-16
If a direct financing lease is modified and the modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8, the lessor shall account for the modified lease as follows:
aIf the modified lease is classified as a direct financing lease, the lessor shall adjust the discount rate for the modified lease so that the initial net investment in the modified lease equals the carrying amount of the net investment in the original lease immediately before the effective date of the modification.
bIf the modified lease is classified as a sales-type lease, the lessor shall account for the modified lease in accordance with the guidance applicable to sales-type leases in Subtopic 842-30, with the commencement date of the modified lease being the effective date of the modification. In calculating the selling profit or selling loss on the lease, the fair value of the underlying asset is its fair value at the effective date of the modification and its carrying amount is the carrying amount of the net investment in the original lease immediately before the effective date of the modification.
cIf the modified lease is classified as an operating lease, the carrying amount of the underlying asset equals the net investment in the original lease immediately before the effective date of the modification.
842-10-25-17
If a sales-type lease is modified and the modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8, the lessor shall account for the modified lease as follows:
aIf the modified lease is classified as a sales-type or a direct financing lease, in the same manner as described in paragraph 842-10-25-16(a)
bIf the modified lease is classified as an operating lease, in the same manner as described in paragraph 842-10-25-16(c).
842-10-25-18
See Examples 15 through 22 (paragraphs 842-10-55-159 through 55-209) for illustrations of the requirements on lease modifications.
> Contract Combinations
842-10-25-19
An entity shall combine two or more contracts, at least one of which is or contains a lease, entered into at or near the same time with the same counterparty (or related parties) and consider the contracts as a single transaction if any of the following criteria are met:
aThe contracts are negotiated as a package with the same commercial objective(s).
bThe amount of consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract.
cThe rights to use underlying assets conveyed in the contracts (or some of the rights of use conveyed in the contracts) are a single lease component in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-28.
30 Initial Measurement
General
> Lease Term and Purchase Options
842-10-30-1
An entity shall determine the lease term as the noncancellable period of the lease, together with all of the following:
aPeriods covered by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option
bPeriods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise that option
cPeriods covered by an option to extend (or not to terminate) the lease in which exercise of the option is controlled by the lessor.
842-10-30-2
At the commencement date, an entity shall include the periods described in paragraph 842-10-30-1 in the lease term having considered all relevant factors that create an economic incentive for the lessee (that is, contract-based, asset-based, entity-based, and market-based factors). Those factors shall be considered together, and the existence of any one factor does not necessarily signify that a lessee is reasonably certain to exercise or not to exercise an option.
842-10-30-3
At the commencement date, an entity shall assess an option to purchase the underlying asset on the same basis as an option to extend or not to terminate a lease, as described in paragraph 842-10-30-2.
842-10-30-4
See paragraphs 842-10-55-19 through 55-21 for implementation guidance on commencement date and paragraphs 842-10-55-23 through 55-27 for implementation guidance on lease term and purchase options. See Examples 23 through 24 (paragraphs 842-10-55-210 through 55-224) for illustrations of the requirements on purchase options.
> Initial Measurement of the Lease Payments
842-10-30-5
At the commencement date, the lease payments shall consist of the following payments relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term:
aFixed payments, including in substance fixed payments, less any lease incentives paid or payable to the lessee (see paragraphs 842-10-55-30 through 55-31).
bVariable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate (such as the Consumer Price Index or a market interest rate), initially measured using the index or rate at the commencement date.
cThe exercise price of an option to purchase the underlying asset if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option (assessed considering the factors in paragraph 842-10-55-26).
dPayments for penalties for terminating the lease if the lease term (as determined in accordance with paragraph 842-10-30-1) reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate the lease.
eFees paid by the lessee to the owners of a special-purpose entity for structuring the transaction. However, such fees shall not be included in the fair value of the underlying asset for purposes of applying paragraph 842-10-25-2(d).
fFor a lessee only, amounts probable of being owed by the lessee under residual value guarantees (see paragraphs 842-10-55-34 through 55-36).
842-10-30-6
Lease payments do not include any of the following:
aVariable lease payments other than those in paragraph 842-10-30-5(b)
bAny guarantee by the lessee of the lessor's debt
cAmounts allocated to nonlease components in accordance with paragraphs 842-10-15-33 through 15-42
dLeasehold improvements recognized by a lessee and accounted for in accordance with paragraph 842-20-35-12A.
842-10-30-7
Paragraph 410-20-15-3(e) addresses the scope application of Subtopic 410-20 on asset retirement obligations to obligations of a lessee in connection with a lease (see paragraph 842-10-55-37).
842-10-30-8
See Example 25 (paragraphs 842-10-55-225 through 55-234) for an illustration of the requirements on lessee accounting for variable lease payments and Example 26 (paragraphs 842-10-55-235 through 55-238) for an illustration of the requirements on termination penalties.
· > Initial Direct Costs
842-10-30-9
Initial direct costs for a lessee or a lessor may include, for example, either of the following:
aCommissions
bPayments made to an existing tenant to incentivize that tenant to terminate its lease.
842-10-30-10
Costs to negotiate or arrange a lease that would have been incurred regardless of whether the lease was obtained, such as fixed employee salaries, are not initial direct costs. The following items are examples of costs that are not initial direct costs:
aGeneral overheads, including, for example, depreciation, occupancy and equipment costs, unsuccessful origination efforts, and idle time
bCosts related to activities performed by the lessor for advertising, soliciting potential lessees, servicing existing leases, or other ancillary activities
cCosts related to activities that occur before the lease is obtained, such as costs of obtaining tax or legal advice, negotiating lease terms and conditions, or evaluating a prospective lessee's financial condition.
35 Subsequent Measurement
General
> Lease Term and Purchase Options
842-10-35-1
A lessee shall reassess the lease term or a lessee option to purchase the underlying asset only if and at the point in time that any of the following occurs:
aThere is a significant event or a significant change in circumstances that is within the control of the lessee that directly affects whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise or not to exercise an option to extend or terminate the lease or to purchase the underlying asset.
bThere is an event that is written into the contract that obliges the lessee to exercise (or not to exercise) an option to extend or terminate the lease.
cThe lessee elects to exercise an option even though the entity had previously determined that the lessee was not reasonably certain to do so.
dThe lessee elects not to exercise an option even though the entity had previously determined that the lessee was reasonably certain to do so.
842-10-35-2
See paragraphs 842-10-55-28 through 55-29 for implementation guidance on reassessing the lease term and lessee options to purchase the underlying asset.
842-10-35-3
A lessor shall not reassess the lease term or a lessee option to purchase the underlying asset unless the lease is modified and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8. When a lessee exercises an option to extend the lease or purchase the underlying asset that the lessor previously determined the lessee was not reasonably certain to exercise or exercises an option to terminate the lease that the lessor previously determined the lessee was reasonably certain not to exercise, the lessor shall account for the exercise of that option in the same manner as a lease modification.
> Subsequent Measurement of the Lease Payments
842-10-35-4
A lessee shall remeasure the lease payments if any of the following occur:
aThe lease is modified, and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8.
bA contingency upon which some or all of the variable lease payments that will be paid over the remainder of the lease term are based is resolved such that those payments now meet the definition of lease payments. For example, an event occurs that results in variable lease payments that were linked to the performance or use of the underlying asset becoming fixed payments for the remainder of the lease term. However, a change in a reference index or a rate upon which some or all of the variable lease payments in the contract are based does not constitute the resolution of a contingency subject to (b) (see paragraph 842-10-35-5 for guidance on the remeasurement of variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate).
cThere is a change in any of the following:
1The lease term, as described in paragraph 842-10-35-1. A lessee shall determine the revised lease payments on the basis of the revised lease term.
2The assessment of whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise or not to exercise an option to purchase the underlying asset, as described in paragraph 842-10-35-1. A lessee shall determine the revised lease payments to reflect the change in the assessment of the purchase option.
3Amounts probable of being owed by the lessee under residual value guarantees. A lessee shall determine the revised lease payments to reflect the change in amounts probable of being owed by the lessee under residual value guarantees.
842-10-35-5
When one or more of the events described in paragraph 842-10-35-4(a) or (c) occur or when a contingency unrelated to a change in a reference index or rate under paragraph 842-10-35-4(b) is resolved, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate shall be remeasured using the index or rate as of the date the remeasurement is required.
842-10-35-6
A lessor shall not remeasure the lease payments unless the lease is modified and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8.
55 Implementation Guidance and Illustrations
General
> Implementation Guidance
· > Identifying a Lease
842-10-55-1
The following flowchart depicts the decision process to follow in identifying whether a contract is or contains a lease. The flowchart does not include all of the guidance on identifying a lease in this Subtopic and is not intended as a substitute for the guidance on identifying a lease in this Subtopic.

· > Lease Classification
842-10-55-2
When determining lease classification, one reasonable approach to assessing the criteria in paragraphs 842-10-25-2(c) through (d) and 842-10-25-3(b)(1) would be to conclude:
aSeventy-five percent or more of the remaining economic life of the underlying asset is a major part of the remaining economic life of that underlying asset.
bA commencement date that falls at or near the end of the economic life of the underlying asset refers to a commencement date that falls within the last 25 percent of the total economic life of the underlying asset.
cNinety percent or more of the fair value of the underlying asset amounts to substantially all the fair value of the underlying asset.
842-10-55-3
In some cases, it may not be practicable for an entity to determine the fair value of an underlying asset. In the context of this Topic, practicable means that a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made without undue cost or effort. It is a dynamic concept; what is practicable for one entity may not be practicable for another, what is practicable in one period may not be practicable in another, and what is practicable for one underlying asset (or class of underlying asset) may not be practicable for another. In those cases in which it is not practicable for an entity to determine the fair value of an underlying asset, lease classification should be determined without consideration of the criteria in paragraphs 842-10-25-2(d) and 842-10-25-3(b)(1).
· · > Transfer-of-Ownership Criterion
842-10-55-4
The criterion in paragraph 842-10-25-2(a) is met in leases that provide, upon the lessee's performance in accordance with the terms of the lease, that the lessor should execute and deliver to the lessee such documents (including, if applicable, a bill of sale) as may be required to release the underlying asset from the lease and to transfer ownership to the lessee.
842-10-55-5
The criterion in paragraph 842-10-25-2(a) also is met in situations in which the lease requires the payment by the lessee of a nominal amount (for example, the minimum fee required by the statutory regulation to transfer ownership) in connection with the transfer of ownership.
842-10-55-6
A provision in a lease that ownership of the underlying asset is not transferred to the lessee if the lessee elects not to pay the specified fee (whether nominal or otherwise) to complete the transfer is an option to purchase the underlying asset. Such a provision does not satisfy the transfer-of-ownership criterion in paragraph 842-10-25-2(a).
· · > Alternative Use Criterion
842-10-55-7
In assessing whether an underlying asset has an alternative use to the lessor at the end of the lease term in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-2(e), an entity should consider the effects of contractual restrictions and practical limitations on the lessor's ability to readily direct that asset for another use (for example, selling it or leasing it to an entity other than the lessee). A contractual restriction on a lessor's ability to direct an underlying asset for another use must be substantive for the asset not to have an alternative use to the lessor. A contractual restriction is substantive if it is enforceable. A practical limitation on a lessor's ability to direct an underlying asset for another use exists if the lessor would incur significant economic losses to direct the underlying asset for another use. A significant economic loss could arise because the lessor either would incur significant costs to rework the asset or would only be able to sell or re-lease the asset at a significant loss. For example, a lessor may be practically limited from redirecting assets that either have design specifications that are unique to the lessee or that are located in remote areas. The possibility of the contract with the customer being terminated is not a relevant consideration in assessing whether the lessor would be able to readily direct the underlying asset for another use.
· · > Effect of Investment Tax Credits
842-10-55-8
When evaluating the lease classification criteria in paragraphs 842-10-25-2(d) and 842-10-25-3(b)(1), the fair value of the underlying asset should be reduced by any related investment tax credit retained by the lessor and expected to be realized by the lessor.
· · > Residual Value Guarantees for a Portfolio of Underlying Assets
842-10-55-9
Lessors may obtain residual value guarantees for a portfolio of underlying assets for which settlement is not solely based on the residual value of the individual underlying assets. In such cases, the lessor is economically assured of receiving a minimum residual value for a portfolio of assets that are subject to separate leases but not for each individual asset. Accordingly, when an asset has a residual value in excess of the “guaranteed” amount, that excess is offset against shortfalls in residual value that exist in other assets in the portfolio.
842-10-55-10
Residual value guarantees of a portfolio of underlying assets preclude a lessor from determining the amount of the guaranteed residual value of any individual underlying asset within the portfolio. Consequently, no such amounts should be considered when evaluating the lease classification criteria in paragraphs 842-10-25-2(d) and 842-10-25-3(b)(1).
· · > Lease of an Acquiree
842-10-55-11
In a business combination or an acquisition by a not-for-profit entity, the acquiring entity should retain the previous lease classification in accordance with this Subtopic unless there is a lease modification and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8.
Clock ImagePENDING CONTENTQuestion Image
Transition date:Pending FASB P January 1, 2025; Pending FASB N January 1, 2025Transition guidance:805-60-65-1
In a business combination or an acquisition by a not-for-profit entity, the acquiring entity should retain the previous lease classification in accordance with this Subtopic unless there is a lease modification and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8. A joint venture formation accounted for in accordance with Subtopic 805-60 should apply the guidance in this paragraph applicable to the acquiring entity in a business combination. The joint venture should be viewed as analogous to the acquiring entity in a business combination, and any recognized businesses and/or assets should be viewed as analogous to an acquiree.
· · > Lease of a Related Party
842-10-55-12
Except for leases between entities under common control accounted for in accordance with the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-3A, leases between related parties should be classified in accordance with the lease classification criteria applicable to all other leases on the basis of the legally enforceable terms and conditions of the lease. Additionally, except for leases between entities under common control accounted for in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-3A, the classification and accounting for the leases should be the same as for leases between unrelated parties in the separate financial statements of the related parties.
· · > Lease Involving Facilities Owned by a Government Unit or Authority
842-10-55-13
Because of special provisions normally present in leases involving terminal space and other airport facilities owned by a governmental unit or authority, the economic life of such facilities for purposes of classifying a lease is essentially indeterminate. Likewise, it may not be practicable to determine the fair value of the underlying asset. If it is impracticable to determine the fair value of the underlying asset and such leases also do not provide for a transfer of ownership or a purchase option that the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise, they should be classified as operating leases. This guidance also applies to leases of other facilities owned by a governmental unit or authority in which the rights of the parties are essentially the same as in a lease of airport facilities. Examples of such leases may be those involving facilities at ports and bus terminals. The guidance in this paragraph is intended to apply to leases only if all of the following conditions are met:
aThe underlying asset is owned by a governmental unit or authority.
bThe underlying asset is part of a larger facility, such as an airport, operated by or on behalf of the lessor.
cThe underlying asset is a permanent structure or a part of a permanent structure, such as a building, that normally could not be moved to a new location.
dThe lessor, or in some circumstances a higher governmental authority, has the explicit right under the lease agreement or existing statutes or regulations applicable to the underlying asset to terminate the lease at any time during the lease term, such as by closing the facility containing the underlying asset or by taking possession of the facility.
eThe lease neither transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the lessee nor allows the lessee to purchase or otherwise acquire ownership of the underlying asset.
fThe underlying asset or equivalent asset in the same service area cannot be purchased or leased from a nongovernmental unit or authority. An equivalent asset in the same service area is an asset that would allow continuation of essentially the same service or activity as afforded by the underlying asset without any appreciable difference in economic results to the lessee.
842-10-55-14
Leases of underlying assets not meeting all of the conditions in paragraph 842-10-55-13 are subject to the same criteria for classifying leases under this Subtopic that are applicable to leases not involving government-owned property.
· · > Lessee Indemnification for Environmental Contamination
842-10-55-15
A provision that requires lessee indemnification for environmental contamination, whether for environmental contamination caused by the lessee during its use of the underlying asset over the lease term or for preexisting environmental contamination, should not affect the classification of the lease.
· > Lease Modifications
· · > Lease Modifications in Connection with the Refunding of Tax-Exempt Debt
842-10-55-16
In some situations, tax-exempt debt is issued to finance construction of a facility, such as a plant or hospital, that is transferred to a user of the facility by lease. A lease may serve as collateral for the guarantee of payments equivalent to those required to service the tax-exempt debt. Payments required by the terms of the lease are essentially the same, as to both amount and timing, as those required by the tax-exempt debt. A lease modification resulting from a refunding by the lessor of tax-exempt debt (including an advance refunding) should be accounted for in the same manner (that is, in accordance with paragraphs 842-10-25-8 through 25-18) as any other lease modification. For example, if the perceived economic advantages of the refunding are passed through to the lessee in the form of reduced lease payments, the lessee should account for the modification in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-12, while the lessor should account for the modification in accordance with the applicable guidance in paragraphs 842-10-25-15 through 25-17.
· · > Master Lease Agreements
842-10-55-17
Under a master lease agreement, the lessee may gain control over the use of additional underlying assets during the term of the agreement. If the agreement specifies a minimum number of units or dollar value of equipment, the lessee obtaining control over the use of those additional underlying assets is not a lease modification. Rather, the entity (whether a lessee or a lessor) applies the guidance in paragraphs 842-10-15-28 through 15-42 when identifying the separate lease components and allocating the consideration in the contract to those components. Paragraph 842-10-55-22 explains that a master lease agreement may, therefore, result in multiple commencement dates.
842-10-55-18
If the master lease agreement permits the lessee to gain control over the use of additional underlying assets during the term of the agreement but does not commit the lessee to doing so, the lessee's taking control over the use of an additional underlying asset should be accounted for as a lease modification in accordance with paragraphs 842-10-25-8 through 25-18.
· > Commencement Date
842-10-55-19
In some lease arrangements, the lessor may make the underlying asset available for use by the lessee (for example, the lessee may take possession of or be given control over the use of the underlying asset) before it begins operations or makes lease payments under the terms of the lease. During this period, the lessee has the right to use the underlying asset and does so for the purpose of constructing a lessee asset (for example, leasehold improvements).
842-10-55-20
The contract may require the lessee to make lease payments only after construction is completed and the lessee begins operations. Alternatively, some contracts require the lessee to make lease payments when it takes possession of or is given control over the use of the underlying asset. The timing of when lease payments begin under the contract does not affect the commencement date of the lease.
842-10-55-21
Lease costs (or income) associated with building and ground leases incurred (earned) during and after a construction period are for the right to use the underlying asset during and after construction of a lessee asset. There is no distinction between the right to use an underlying asset during a construction period and the right to use that asset after the construction period. Therefore, lease costs (or income) associated with ground or building leases that are incurred (earned) during a construction period should be recognized by the lessee (or lessor) in accordance with the guidance in Subtopics 842-20 and 842-30, respectively. That guidance does not address whether a lessee that accounts for the sale or rental of real estate projects under Topic 970 should capitalize rental costs associated with ground and building leases.
· · > Master Lease Agreements
842-10-55-22
There may be multiple commencement dates resulting from a master lease agreement. That is because a master lease agreement may cover a significant number of underlying assets, each of which are made available for use by the lessee on different dates. Although a master lease agreement may specify that the lessee must take a minimum number of units or dollar value of equipment, there will be multiple commencement dates unless all of the underlying assets subject to that minimum are made available for use by the lessee on the same date.
· > Lease Term and Purchase Options
842-10-55-23
An entity should determine the noncancellable period of a lease when determining the lease term. When assessing the length of the noncancellable period of a lease, an entity should apply the definition of a contract and determine the period for which the contract is enforceable. A lease is no longer enforceable when both the lessee and the lessor each have the right to terminate the lease without permission from the other party with no more than an insignificant penalty.
842-10-55-24
If only a lessee has the right to terminate a lease, that right is considered to be an option to terminate the lease available to the lessee that an entity considers when determining the lease term, as described in paragraph 842-10-30-1(b). If only a lessor has the right to terminate a lease, the lease term includes the period covered by the option to terminate the lease, as described in paragraph 842-10-30-1(c).
842-10-55-25
The lease term begins at the commencement date and includes any rent-free periods provided to the lessee by the lessor.
· · > Reasonably Certain
842-10-55-26
At the commencement date, an entity assesses whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise or not to exercise an option by considering all economic factors relevant to that assessment—contract-based, asset-based, market-based, and entity-based factors. An entity's assessment often will require the consideration of a combination of those factors because they are interrelated. Examples of economic factors to consider include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
aContractual terms and conditions for the optional periods compared with current market rates, such as:
1The amount of lease payments in any optional period
2The amount of any variable lease payments or other contingent payments, such as payments under termination penalties and residual value guarantees
3The terms and conditions of any options that are exercisable after initial optional periods (for example, the terms and conditions of a purchase option that is exercisable at the end of an extension period at a rate that is currently below market rates).
bSignificant leasehold improvements that are expected to have significant economic value for the lessee when the option to extend or terminate the lease or to purchase the underlying asset becomes exercisable.
cCosts relating to the termination of the lease and the signing of a new lease, such as negotiation costs, relocation costs, costs of identifying another underlying asset suitable for the lessee's operations, or costs associated with returning the underlying asset in a contractually specified condition or to a contractually specified location.
dThe importance of that underlying asset to the lessee's operations, considering, for example, whether the underlying asset is a specialized asset and the location of the underlying asset.
· · > Fiscal Funding Clauses
842-10-55-27
The existence of a fiscal funding clause in a lease agreement requires an assessment of the likelihood of lease cancellation through exercise of the fiscal funding clause. If it is more than remote that the fiscal funding clause will be exercised, the lease term should include only those periods for which funding is reasonably certain.
· > Reassessing the Lease Term and Purchase Options
842-10-55-28
Examples of significant events or significant changes in circumstances that a lessee should consider in accordance with paragraph 842-10-35-1 include, but are not limited to, the following:
aConstructing significant leasehold improvements that are expected to have significant economic value for the lessee when the option becomes exercisable
bMaking significant modifications or customizations to the underlying asset
cMaking a business decision that is directly relevant to the lessee's ability to exercise or not to exercise an option (for example, extending the lease of a complementary asset or disposing of an alternative asset)
dSubleasing the underlying asset for a period beyond the exercise date of the option.
842-10-55-29
A change in market-based factors (such as market rates to lease or purchase a comparable asset) should not, in isolation, trigger reassessment of the lease term or a lessee option to purchase the underlying asset.
· > Lease Payments
· · > Lease Incentives
842-10-55-30
Lease incentives include both of the following:
aPayments made to or on behalf of the lessee
bLosses incurred by the lessor as a result of assuming a lessee's preexisting lease with a third party. In that circumstance, the lessor and the lessee should independently estimate any loss attributable to that assumption. For example, the lessee's estimate of the lease incentive could be based on a comparison of the new lease with the market rental rate available for similar underlying assets or the market rental rate from the same lessor without the lease assumption. The lessor should estimate any loss on the basis of the total remaining costs reduced by the expected benefits from the sublease for use of the assumed underlying asset.
· · > In Substance Fixed Payments
842-10-55-31
Lease payments include in substance fixed lease payments. In substance fixed payments are payments that may, in form, appear to contain variability but are, in effect, unavoidable. In substance fixed payments for a lessee or a lessor may include, for example, any of the following:
aPayments that do not create genuine variability (such as those that result from clauses that do not have economic substance)
bThe lower of the payments to be made when a lessee has a choice about which set of payments it makes, although it must make at least one set of payments.
· · > Guarantees and Indemnifications
842-10-55-32
Paragraph 460-10-15-4(c) states that, except as provided in paragraph 460-10-15-7, the provisions of Subtopic 460-10 on guarantees apply to indemnification agreements (contracts) that contingently require an indemnifying party (guarantor) to make payments to an indemnified party (guaranteed party) based on changes in an underlying that is related to an asset, a liability, or an equity security of the indemnified party. Paragraph 460-10-55-23A provides related implementation guidance for a tax indemnification provided to a lessor.
842-10-55-33
A lessor should evaluate a commitment to guarantee performance of the underlying asset or to effectively protect the lessee from obsolescence of the underlying asset in accordance with paragraphs 606-10-55-30 through 55-35 on warranties. If the lessor's commitment is more extensive than a typical product warranty, it might indicate that the commitment is providing a service to the lessee that should be accounted for as a nonlease component of the contract.
· · · > Residual Value Guarantees
842-10-55-34
A lease provision requiring the lessee to make up a residual value deficiency that is attributable to damage, extraordinary wear and tear, or excessive usage is similar to variable lease payments in that the amount is not determinable at the commencement date. Such a provision does not constitute a lessee guarantee of the residual value.
842-10-55-35
If the lessor has the right to require the lessee to purchase the underlying asset by the end of the lease term, the stated purchase price is included in lease payments. That amount is, in effect, a guaranteed residual value that the lessee is obligated to pay on the basis of circumstances outside its control.
842-10-55-36
A residual value guarantee obtained by the lessee from an unrelated third party for the benefit of the lessor should not be used to reduce the amount of the lessee's lease payments under paragraph 842-10-30-5(f) except to the extent that the lessor explicitly releases the lessee from obligation, including the secondary obligation, which is if the guarantor defaults, a residual value deficiency must be made up. Amounts paid in consideration for a guarantee by an unrelated third party are executory costs and are not included in the lessee's lease payments.
· · · > Obligations to Return an Underlying Asset to its Original Condition
842-10-55-37
Obligations imposed by a lease agreement to return an underlying asset to its original condition if it has been modified by the lessee (for example, a requirement to remove a lessee-installed leasehold improvement) generally would not meet the definition of lease payments or variable lease payments and would be accounted for in accordance with Subtopic 410-20 on asset retirement and environmental obligations. In contrast, costs to dismantle and remove an underlying asset at the end of the lease term that are imposed by the lease agreement generally would be considered lease payments or variable lease payments.
· · · > Indemnification Clauses for Certain Tax Benefits
842-10-55-38
Some leases contain indemnification clauses that indemnify lessors on an after-tax basis for certain tax benefits that the lessor may lose if a change in the tax law precludes realization of those tax benefits. Although the indemnification payments may appear to meet the definition of variable lease payments, those payments are not of the nature normally expected to arise under variable lease payment provisions.
842-10-55-39
Because of the close association of the indemnification payments to specific aspects of the tax law, any payments should be accounted for in a manner that recognizes the tax law association. The lease classification should not be changed.
842-10-55-40
Paragraph 842-30-55-16 discusses a lessor's accounting for guarantee payments received.
> Illustrations
· > Illustration of Identifying a Lease
842-10-55-41
Examples 1 through 10 illustrate the identification of a lease.
· · > Example 1—Rail Cars
· · · > Case A—Contract Contains a Lease
842-10-55-42
A contract between Customer and a freight carrier (Supplier) provides Customer with the use of 10 rail cars of a particular type for 5 years. The contract specifies the rail cars; the cars are owned by Supplier. Customer determines when, where, and which goods are to be transported using the cars. When the cars are not in use, they are kept at Customer's premises. Customer can use the cars for another purpose (for example, storage) if it so chooses. However, the contract specifies that Customer cannot transport particular types of cargo (for example, explosives). If a particular car needs to be serviced or repaired, Supplier is required to substitute a car of the same type. Otherwise, and other than on default by Customer, Supplier cannot retrieve the cars during the five-year period.
842-10-55-43
The contract also requires Supplier to provide an engine and a driver when requested by Customer. Supplier keeps the engines at its premises and provides instructions to the driver detailing Customer's requests to transport goods. Supplier can choose to use any one of a number of engines to fulfill each of Customer's requests, and one engine could be used to transport not only Customer's goods, but also the goods of other customers (for example, if other customers require the transport of goods to destinations close to the destination requested by Customer and within a similar timeframe, Supplier can choose to attach up to 100 rail cars to the engine).
842-10-55-44
The contract contains leases of rail cars. Customer has the right to use 10 rail cars for 5 years.
842-10-55-45
There are 10 identified cars. The cars are explicitly specified in the contract. Once delivered to Customer, the cars can be substituted only when they need to be serviced or repaired. The engine used to transport the rail cars is not an identified asset because it is neither explicitly specified nor implicitly specified in the contract.
842-10-55-46
Customer has the right to control the use of the 10 rail cars throughout the 5-year period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the cars over the five-year period of use. Customer has exclusive use of the cars throughout the period of use, including when they are not being used to transport Customer's goods.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of the cars. The contractual restrictions on the cargo that can be transported by the cars are protective rights of Supplier and define the scope of Customer's right to use the cars. Within the scope of its right of use defined in the contract, Customer makes the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the cars are used by being able to decide when and where the rail cars will be used and which goods are transported using the cars. Customer also determines whether and how the cars will be used when not being used to transport its goods (for example, whether and when they will be used for storage). Customer has the right to change these decisions during the five-year period of use.
842-10-55-47
Although having an engine and driver (controlled by Supplier) to transport the rail cars is essential to the efficient use of the cars, Supplier's decisions in this regard do not give it the right to direct how and for what purpose the rail cars are used. Consequently, Supplier does not control the use of the cars during the period of use.
· · · > Case B—Contract Does Not Contain a Lease
842-10-55-48
The contract between Customer and Supplier requires Supplier to transport a specified quantity of goods by using a specified type of rail car in accordance with a stated timetable for a period of five years. The timetable and quantity of goods specified are equivalent to Customer having the use of 10 rail cars for 5 years. Supplier provides the rail cars, driver, and engine as part of the contract. The contract states the nature and quantity of the goods to be transported (and the type of rail car to be used to transport the goods). Supplier has a large pool of similar cars that can be used to fulfill the requirements of the contract. Similarly, Supplier can choose to use any one of a number of engines to fulfill each of Customer's requests, and one engine could be used to transport not only Customer's goods, but also the goods of other customers. The cars and engines are stored at Supplier's premises when not being used to transport goods.
842-10-55-49
The contract does not contain a lease of rail cars or of an engine.
842-10-55-50
The rail cars and the engines used to transport Customer's goods are not identified assets. Supplier has the substantive right to substitute the rail cars and engine because:
aSupplier has the practical ability to substitute each car and the engine throughout the period of use. Alternative cars and engines are readily available to Supplier, and Supplier can substitute each car and the engine without Customer's approval.
bSupplier would benefit economically from substituting each car and the engine. There would be minimal, if any, cost associated with substituting each car or the engine because the cars and engines are stored at Supplier's premises and Supplier has a large pool of similar cars and engines. Supplier benefits from substituting each car or the engine in contracts of this nature because substitution allows Supplier to, for example, (1) use cars or an engine to fulfill a task for which the cars or engine are already positioned to perform (for example, a task at a rail yard close to the point of origin) or (2) use cars or an engine that would otherwise be sitting idle because they are not being used by a customer.
842-10-55-51
Accordingly, Customer does not direct the use and does not have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of an identified car or an engine. Supplier directs the use of the rail cars and engine by selecting which cars and engine are used for each particular delivery and obtains substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the rail cars and engine. Supplier is only providing freight capacity.
· · > Example 2—Concession Space
842-10-55-52
A coffee company (Customer) enters into a contract with an airport operator (Supplier) to use a space in the airport to sell its goods for a three-year period. The contract states the amount of space and that the space may be located at any one of several boarding areas within the airport. Supplier has the right to change the location of the space allocated to Customer at any time during the period of use. There are minimal costs to Supplier associated with changing the space for the Customer: Customer uses a kiosk (that it owns) that can be moved easily to sell its goods. There are many areas in the airport that are available and that would meet the specifications for the space in the contract.
842-10-55-53
The contract does not contain a lease.
842-10-55-54
Although the amount of space Customer uses is specified in the contract, there is no identified asset. Customer controls its owned kiosk. However, the contract is for space in the airport, and this space can change at the discretion of Supplier. Supplier has the substantive right to substitute the space Customer uses because:
aSupplier has the practical ability to change the space used by Customer throughout the period of use. There are many areas in the airport that meet the specifications for the space in the contract, and Supplier has the right to change the location of the space to other space that meets the specifications at any time without Customer's approval.
bSupplier would benefit economically from substituting the space. There would be minimal cost associated with changing the space used by Customer because the kiosk can be moved easily. Supplier benefits from substituting the space in the airport because substitution allows Supplier to make the most effective use of the space at boarding areas in the airport to meet changing circumstances.
· · > Example 3—Fiber-Optic Cable
· · · > Case A—Contract Contains a Lease
842-10-55-55
Customer enters into a 15-year contract with a utilities company (Supplier) for the right to use 3 specified, physically distinct dark fibers within a larger cable connecting Hong Kong to Tokyo. Customer makes the decisions about the use of the fibers by connecting each end of the fibers to its electronic equipment (for example, Customer “lights” the fibers and decides what data and how much data those fibers will transport). If the fibers are damaged, Supplier is responsible for the repairs and maintenance. Supplier owns extra fibers but can substitute those for Customer's fibers only for reasons of repairs, maintenance, or malfunction (and is obliged to substitute the fibers in these cases).
842-10-55-56
The contract contains a lease of dark fibers. Customer has the right to use the 3 dark fibers for 15 years.
842-10-55-57
There are three identified fibers. The fibers are explicitly specified in the contract and are physically distinct from other fibers within the cable. Supplier cannot substitute the fibers other than for reasons of repairs, maintenance, or malfunction.
842-10-55-58
Customer has the right to control the use of the fibers throughout the 15-year period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the fibers over the 15-year period of use. Customer has exclusive use of the fibers throughout the period of use.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of the fibers. Customer makes the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the fibers are used by deciding when and whether to light the fibers and when and how much output the fibers will produce (that is, what data and how much data those fibers will transport). Customer has the right to change these decisions during the 15-year period of use.
842-10-55-59
Although Supplier's decisions about repairing and maintaining the fibers are essential to their efficient use, those decisions do not give Supplier the right to direct how and for what purpose the fibers are used. Consequently, Supplier does not control the use of the fibers during the period of use.
· · · > Case B—Contract Does Not Contain a Lease
842-10-55-60
Customer enters into a 15-year contract with Supplier for the right to use a specified amount of capacity within a cable connecting Hong Kong to Tokyo. The specified amount is equivalent to Customer having the use of the full capacity of 3 strands within the cable (the cable contains 15 fibers with similar capacities). Supplier makes decisions about the transmission of data (that is, Supplier lights the fibers and makes decisions about which fibers are used to transmit Customer's traffic and about the electronic equipment that Supplier owns and connects to the fibers).
842-10-55-61
The contract does not contain a lease.
842-10-55-62
Supplier makes all decisions about the transmission of its customers' data, which requires the use of only a portion of the capacity of the cable for each customer. The capacity portion that will be provided to Customer is not physically distinct from the remaining capacity of the cable and does not represent substantially all of the capacity of the cable. Consequently, Customer does not have the right to use an identified asset.
· · > Example 4—Retail Unit
842-10-55-63
Customer enters into a contract with property owner (Supplier) to use Retail Unit A for a five-year period. Retail Unit A is part of a larger retail space with many retail units.
842-10-55-64
Customer is granted the right to use Retail Unit A. Supplier can require Customer to relocate to another retail unit. In that case, Supplier is required to provide Customer with a retail unit of similar quality and specifications to Retail Unit A and to pay for Customer's relocation costs. Supplier would benefit economically from relocating Customer only if a major new tenant were to decide to occupy a large amount of retail space at a rate sufficiently favorable to cover the costs of relocating Customer and other tenants in the retail space that the new tenant will occupy. However, although it is possible that those circumstances will arise, at inception of the contract, it is not likely that those circumstances will arise. For example, whether a major new tenant will decide to lease a large amount of retail space at a rate that would be sufficiently favorable to cover the costs of relocating Customer is highly susceptible to factors outside Supplier's influence.
842-10-55-65
The contract requires Customer to use Retail Unit A to operate its well-known store brand to sell its goods during the hours that the larger retail space is open. Customer makes all of the decisions about the use of the retail unit during the period of use. For example, Customer decides on the mix of goods sold from the unit, the pricing of the goods sold, and the quantities of inventory held. Customer also controls physical access to the unit throughout the five-year period of use.
842-10-55-66
The contract requires Customer to make fixed payments to Supplier as well as variable payments that are a percentage of sales from Retail Unit A.
842-10-55-67
Supplier provides cleaning and security services as well as advertising services as part of the contract.
842-10-55-68
The contract contains a lease of retail space. Customer has the right to use Retail Unit A for five years.
842-10-55-69
Retail Unit A is an identified asset. It is explicitly specified in the contract. Supplier has the practical ability to substitute the retail unit, but could benefit economically from substitution only in specific circumstances. Supplier's substitution right is not substantive because, at inception of the contract, those circumstances are not considered likely to arise.
842-10-55-70
Customer has the right to control the use of Retail Unit A throughout the five-year period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of Retail Unit A over the five-year period of use. Customer has exclusive use of Retail Unit A throughout the period of use. Although a portion of the cash flows derived from sales from Retail Unit A will flow from Customer to Supplier, this represents consideration that Customer pays Supplier for the right to use the retail unit. It does not prevent Customer from having the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of Retail Unit A.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of Retail Unit A. The contractual restrictions on the goods that can be sold from Retail Unit A and when Retail Unit A is open define the scope of Customer's right to use Retail Unit A. Within the scope of its right of use defined in the contract, Customer makes the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose Retail Unit A is used by being able to decide, for example, the mix of products that will be sold in the retail unit and the sale price for those products. Customer has the right to change these decisions during the five-year period of use.
842-10-55-71
Although cleaning, security, and advertising services are essential to the efficient use of Retail Unit A, Supplier's decisions in this regard do not give it the right to direct how and for what purpose Retail Unit A is used. Consequently, Supplier does not control the use of Retail Unit A during the period of use, and Supplier's decisions do not affect Customer's control of the use of Retail Unit A.
· · > Example 5—Truck Rental
842-10-55-72
Customer enters into a contract with Supplier for the use of a truck for one week to transport cargo from New York to San Francisco. Supplier does not have substitution rights. Only cargo specified in the contract is permitted to be transported on this truck for the period of the contract. The contract specifies a maximum distance that the truck can be driven. Customer is able to choose the details of the journey (speed, route, rest stops, and so forth) within the parameters of the contract. Customer does not have the right to continue using the truck after the specified trip is complete.
842-10-55-73
The cargo to be transported and the timing and location of pickup in New York and delivery in San Francisco are specified in the contract.
842-10-55-74
Customer is responsible for driving the truck from New York to San Francisco.
842-10-55-75
The contract contains a lease of a truck. Customer has the right to use the truck for the duration of the specified trip.
842-10-55-76
There is an identified asset. The truck is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier does not have the right to substitute the truck.
842-10-55-77
Customer has the right to control the use of the truck throughout the period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the truck over the period of use. Customer has exclusive use of the truck throughout the period of use.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of the truck. How and for what purpose the truck will be used (that is, the transport of specified cargo from New York to San Francisco within a specified time frame) are predetermined in the contract. Customer directs the use of the truck because it has the right to operate the truck (for example, speed, route, and rest stops) throughout the period of use. Customer makes all of the decisions about the use of the truck that can be made during the period of use through its control of the operations of the truck.
842-10-55-78
Because the duration of the contract is one week, this lease meets the definition of a short-term lease.
· · > Example 6—Ship
· · · > Case A—Contract Does Not Contain a Lease
842-10-55-79
Customer enters into a contract with a ship owner (Supplier) for the transport of cargo from Rotterdam to Sydney on a specified ship. The ship is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier does not have substitution rights. The cargo will occupy substantially all of the capacity of the ship. The contract specifies the cargo to be transported on the ship and the dates of pickup and delivery.
842-10-55-80
Supplier operates and maintains the ship and is responsible for the safe passage of the cargo onboard the ship. Customer is prohibited from hiring another operator for the ship or operating the ship itself during the term of the contract.
842-10-55-81
The contract does not contain a lease.
842-10-55-82
There is an identified asset. The ship is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier does not have the right to substitute that specified ship.
842-10-55-83
Customer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the ship over the period of use. Its cargo will occupy substantially all of the capacity of the ship, thereby preventing other parties from obtaining economic benefits from use of the ship.
842-10-55-84
However, Customer does not have the right to control the use of the ship because it does not have the right to direct its use. Customer does not have the right to direct how and for what purpose the ship is used. How and for what purpose the ship will be used (that is, the transport of specified cargo from Rotterdam to Sydney within a specified time frame) are predetermined in the contract. Customer has no right to change how and for what purpose the ship is used during the period of use. Customer has no other decision-making rights about the use of the ship during the period of use (for example, it does not have the right to operate the ship) and did not design the ship. Customer has the same rights regarding the use of the ship as if it were one of multiple customers transporting cargo on the ship.
· · · > Case B—Contract Contains a Lease
842-10-55-85
Customer enters into a contract with Supplier for the use of a specified ship for a five-year period. The ship is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier does not have substitution rights.
842-10-55-86
Customer decides what cargo will be transported and whether, when, and to which ports the ship will sail, throughout the five-year period of use, subject to restrictions specified in the contract. Those restrictions prevent Customer from sailing the ship into waters at a high risk of piracy or carrying hazardous materials as cargo.
842-10-55-87
Supplier operates and maintains the ship and is responsible for the safe passage of the cargo onboard the ship. Customer is prohibited from hiring another operator for the ship or operating the ship itself during the term of the contract.
842-10-55-88
The contract contains a lease. Customer has the right to use the ship for five years.
842-10-55-89
There is an identified asset. The ship is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier does not have the right to substitute that specified ship.
842-10-55-90
Customer has the right to control the use of the ship throughout the five-year period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the ship over the five-year period of use. Customer has exclusive use of the ship throughout the period of use.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of the ship. The contractual restrictions about where the ship can sail and the cargo to be transported by the ship define the scope of Customer's right to use the ship. They are protective rights that protect Supplier's investment in the ship and Supplier's personnel. Within the scope of its right of use, Customer makes the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the ship is used throughout the five-year period of use because it decides whether, where, and when the ship sails, as well as the cargo it will transport. Customer has the right to change these decisions throughout the five-year period of use.
842-10-55-91
Although the operation and maintenance of the ship are essential to its efficient use, Supplier's decisions in this regard do not give it the right to direct how and for what purpose the ship is used. Instead, Supplier's decisions are dependent on Customer's decisions about how and for what purpose the ship is used.
· · > Example 7—Aircraft
842-10-55-92
Customer enters into a contract with an aircraft owner (Supplier) for the use of an explicitly specified aircraft for a two-year period. The contract details the interior and exterior specifications for the aircraft.
842-10-55-93
There are contractual and legal restrictions in the contract on where the aircraft can fly. Subject to those restrictions, Customer determines where and when the aircraft will fly and which passengers and cargo will be transported on the aircraft.
842-10-55-94
Supplier is responsible for operating the aircraft, using its own crew. Customer is prohibited from hiring another operator for the aircraft or operating the aircraft itself during the term of the contract.
842-10-55-95
Supplier is permitted to substitute the aircraft at any time during the two-year period and must substitute the aircraft if it is not working. Any substitute aircraft must meet the interior and exterior specifications in the contract. There are significant costs involved in outfitting an aircraft in Supplier's fleet to meet Customer's specifications.
842-10-55-96
The contract contains a lease. Customer has the right to use the aircraft for two years.
842-10-55-97
There is an identified asset. The aircraft is explicitly specified in the contract, and although Supplier can substitute the aircraft, its substitution right is not substantive. Supplier's substitution right is not substantive because of the significant costs involved in outfitting another aircraft to meet the specifications required by the contract such that Supplier is not expected to benefit economically from substituting the aircraft.
842-10-55-98
Customer has the right to control the use of the aircraft throughout the two-year period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the aircraft over the two-year period of use. Customer has exclusive use of the aircraft throughout the period of use.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of the aircraft. The restrictions on where the aircraft can fly define the scope of Customer's right to use the aircraft. Within the scope of its right of use, Customer makes the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the aircraft is used throughout the two-year period of use because it decides whether, where, and when the aircraft travels as well as the passengers and cargo it will transport. Customer has the right to change these decisions throughout the two-year period of use.
842-10-55-99
Although the operation of the aircraft is essential to its efficient use, Supplier's decisions in this regard do not give it the right to direct how and for what purpose the aircraft is used. Consequently, Supplier does not control the use of the aircraft during the period of use, and Supplier's decisions do not affect Customer's control of the use of the aircraft.
· · > Example 8—Contract for Shirts
842-10-55-100
Customer enters into a contract with a manufacturer (Supplier) to purchase a particular type, quality, and quantity of shirts for a three-year period. The type, quality, and quantity of shirts are specified in the contract.
842-10-55-101
Supplier has only one factory that can meet the needs of Customer. Supplier is unable to supply the shirts from another factory or source the shirts from a third-party supplier. The capacity of the factory exceeds the output for which Customer has contracted (that is, Customer has not contracted for substantially all of the capacity of the factory).
842-10-55-102
Supplier makes all decisions about the operations of the factory, including the production level at which to run the factory and which customer contracts to fulfill with the output of the factory that is not used to fulfill Customer's contract.
842-10-55-103
The contract does not contain a lease.
842-10-55-104
The factory is an identified asset. The factory is implicitly specified because Supplier can fulfill the contract only through the use of this asset.
842-10-55-105
However, Customer does not control the use of the factory because it does not have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the factory. This is because Supplier could decide to use the factory to fulfill other customer contracts during the period of use.
842-10-55-106
Customer also does not control the use of the factory because it does not have the right to direct the use of the factory. Customer does not have the right to direct how and for what purpose the factory is used during the three-year period of use. Customer's rights are limited to specifying output from the factory in the contract with Supplier. Customer has the same rights regarding the use of the factory as other customers purchasing shirts from the factory. Supplier has the right to direct the use of the factory because Supplier can decide how and for what purpose the factory is used (that is, Supplier has the right to decide the production level at which to run the factory and which customer contracts to fulfill with the output produced).
842-10-55-107
Either the fact that Customer does not have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the factory or the fact that Customer does not have the right to direct the use of the factory would be sufficient in isolation to conclude that Customer does not control the use of the factory.
· · > Example 9—Contract for Energy/Power
· · · > Case A—Contract Contains a Lease
842-10-55-108
A utility company (Customer) enters into a contract with a power company (Supplier) to purchase all of the electricity produced by a new solar farm for 20 years. The solar farm is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier has no substitution rights. The solar farm is owned by Supplier, and the energy cannot be provided to Customer from another asset. Customer designed the solar farm before it was constructed—Customer hired experts in solar energy to assist in determining the location of the farm and the engineering of the equipment to be used. Supplier is responsible for building the solar farm to Customer's specifications and then operating and maintaining it. There are no decisions to be made about whether, when, or how much electricity will be produced because the design of the asset has predetermined these decisions. Supplier will receive tax credits relating to the construction and ownership of the solar farm, while Customer receives renewable energy credits that accrue from use of the solar farm.
842-10-55-109
The contract contains a lease. Customer has the right to use the solar farm for 20 years.
842-10-55-110
There is an identified asset because the solar farm is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier does not have the right to substitute the specified solar farm.
842-10-55-111
Customer has the right to control the use of the solar farm throughout the 20-year period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the solar farm over the 20-year period of use. Customer has exclusive use of the solar farm; it takes all of the electricity produced by the farm over the 20-year period of use as well as the renewable energy credits that are a by-product from use of the solar farm. Although Supplier will be receiving economic benefits from the solar farm in the form of tax credits, those economic benefits relate to the ownership of the solar farm rather than the use of the solar farm and, thus, are not considered in this assessment.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of the solar farm. Neither Customer nor Supplier decides how and for what purpose the solar farm is used during the period of use because those decisions are predetermined by the design of the asset (that is, the design of the solar farm has, in effect, programmed into the asset any relevant decision-making rights about how and for what purpose the solar farm is used throughout the period of use). Customer does not operate the solar farm; Supplier makes the decisions about the operation of the solar farm. However, Customer's design of the solar farm has given it the right to direct the use of the farm (as described in paragraph 842-10-15-20(b)(2)). Because the design of the solar farm has predetermined how and for what purpose the asset will be used throughout the period of use, Customer's control over that design is substantively no different from Customer controlling those decisions.
· · · > Case B—Contract Does Not Contain a Lease
842-10-55-112
Customer enters into a contract with Supplier to purchase all of the power produced by an explicitly specified power plant for three years. The power plant is owned and operated by Supplier. Supplier is unable to provide power to Customer from another plant. The contract sets out the quantity and timing of power that the power plant will produce throughout the period of use, which cannot be changed in the absence of extraordinary circumstances (for example, emergency situations). Supplier operates and maintains the plant on a daily basis in accordance with industry-approved operating practices. Supplier designed the power plant when it was constructed some years before entering into the contract with Customer; Customer had no involvement in that design.
842-10-55-113
The contract does not contain a lease.
842-10-55-114
There is an identified asset because the power plant is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier does not have the right to substitute the specified plant.
842-10-55-115
Customer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the identified power plant over the three-year period of use. Customer will take all of the power produced by the power plant over the three-year term of the contract.
842-10-55-116
However, Customer does not have the right to control the use of the power plant because it does not have the right to direct its use. Customer does not have the right to direct how and for what purpose the plant is used. How and for what purpose the plant is used (that is, whether, when, and how much power the plant will produce) are predetermined in the contract. Customer has no right to change how and for what purpose the plant is used during the period of use, nor does it have any other decision-making rights about the use of the power plant during the period of use (for example, it does not operate the power plant) and did not design the plant. Supplier is the only party that can make decisions about the plant during the period of use by making the decisions about how the plant is operated and maintained. Customer has the same rights regarding the use of the plant as if it were one of many customers obtaining power from the plant.
· · · > Case C—Contract Contains a Lease
842-10-55-117
Customer enters into a contract with Supplier to purchase all of the power produced by an explicitly specified power plant for 10 years. The contract states that Customer has rights to all of the power produced by the plant (that is, Supplier cannot use the plant to fulfill other contracts).
842-10-55-118
Customer issues instructions to Supplier about the quantity and timing of the delivery of power. If the plant is not producing power for Customer, it does not operate.
842-10-55-119
Supplier operates and maintains the plant on a daily basis in accordance with industry-approved operating practices.
842-10-55-120
The contract contains a lease. Customer has the right to use the power plant for 10 years.
842-10-55-121
There is an identified asset. The power plant is explicitly specified in the contract, and Supplier does not have the right to substitute the specified plant.
842-10-55-122
Customer has the right to control the use of the power plant throughout the 10-year period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the power plant over the 10-year period of use. Customer has exclusive use of the power plant; it has rights to all of the power produced by the power plant throughout the 10-year period of use.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of the power plant. Customer makes the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the power plant is used because it has the right to determine whether, when, and how much power the plant will produce (that is, the timing and quantity, if any, of power produced) throughout the period of use. Because Supplier is prevented from using the power plant for another purpose, Customer's decision making about the timing and quantity of power produced, in effect, determines when and whether the plant produces output.
842-10-55-123
Although the operation and maintenance of the power plant are essential to its efficient use, Supplier's decisions in this regard do not give it the right to direct how and for what purpose the power plant is used. Consequently, Supplier does not control the use of the power plant during the period of use. Instead, Supplier's decisions are dependent on Customer's decisions about how and for what purpose the power plant is used.
· · > Example 10—Contract for Network Services
· · · > Case A—Contract Does Not Contain a Lease
842-10-55-124
Customer enters into a contract with a telecommunications company (Supplier) for network services for two years. The contract requires Supplier to supply network services that meet a specified quality level. To provide the services, Supplier installs and configures servers at Customer's premises; Supplier determines the speed and quality of data transportation in the network using the servers. Supplier can reconfigure or replace the servers when needed to continuously provide the quality of network services defined in the contract. Customer does not operate the servers or make any significant decisions about their use.
842-10-55-125
The contract does not contain a lease. Instead, the contract is a service contract in which Supplier uses the equipment to meet the level of network services determined by Customer.
842-10-55-126
Customer does not control the use of the servers because Customer's only decision-making rights relate to deciding on the level of network services (the output of the servers) before the period of use—the level of network services cannot be changed during the period of use without modifying the contract. For example, even though Customer produces the data to be transported, that activity does not directly affect the configuration of the network services and, thus, it does not affect how and for what purpose the servers are used. Supplier is the only party that can make decisions about the use of the servers during the period of use. Supplier has the right to decide how data are transported using the servers, whether to reconfigure the servers, and whether to use the servers for another purpose. Accordingly, Supplier controls the use of the servers in providing network services to Customer. There is no need to assess whether the servers are identified assets because Customer does not have the right to control the use of the servers.
· · · > Case B—Contract Contains a Lease
842-10-55-127
Customer enters into a contract with an information technology company (Supplier) for the use of an identified server for three years. Supplier delivers and installs the server at Customer's premises in accordance with Customer's instructions and provides repair and maintenance services for the server, as needed, throughout the period of use. Supplier substitutes the server only in the case of malfunction. Customer decides which data to store on the server and how to integrate the server within its operations. Customer can change its decisions in this regard throughout the period of use.
842-10-55-128
The contract contains a lease. Customer has the right to use the server for three years.
842-10-55-129
There is an identified asset. The server is explicitly specified in the contract. Supplier can substitute the server only if it is malfunctioning.
842-10-55-130
Customer has the right to control the use of the server throughout the three-year period of use because:
aCustomer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the server over the three-year period of use. Customer has exclusive use of the server throughout the period of use.
bCustomer has the right to direct the use of the server. Customer makes the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the server is used because it has the right to decide which aspect of its operations the server is used to support and which data it stores on the server. Customer is the only party that can make decisions about the use of the server during the period of use.
· > Illustrations of Allocating Consideration to Components of a Contract
842-10-55-131
Examples 11 through 14 illustrate separating components of a contract.
· · > Example 11—Allocation of Consideration to Lease and Nonlease Components of a Contract
· · · > Case A—Allocation of Consideration in the Contract
842-10-55-132
Lessor leases a bulldozer, a truck, and a crane to Lessee to be used in Lessee's construction operations for three years. Lessor also agrees to maintain each piece of equipment throughout the lease term. The total consideration in the contract is $600,000, payable in $200,000 annual installments.
842-10-55-133
Lessee and Lessor both conclude that the leases of the bulldozer, the truck, and the crane are each separate lease components because both of the criteria in paragraph 842-10-15-28 are met. That is:
aThe criterion in paragraph 842-10-15-28(a) is met because Lessee can benefit from each of the three pieces of equipment on its own or together with other readily available resources (for example, Lessee could readily lease or purchase an alternative truck or crane to use with the bulldozer).
bThe criterion in paragraph 842-10-15-28(b) is met because, despite the fact that Lessee is leasing all three machines for one purpose (that is, to engage in construction operations), the machines are not highly dependent on or highly interrelated with each other. The machines are not, in effect, inputs to a combined single item for which Lessee is contracting. Lessor can fulfill each of its obligations to lease one of the underlying assets independently of its fulfillment of the other lease obligations, and Lessee's ability to derive benefit from the lease of each piece of equipment is not significantly affected by its decision to lease or not lease the other equipment from Lessor.
842-10-55-134
In accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-31, Lessee and Lessor will account for the nonlease maintenance services components separate from the three separate lease components (unless Lessee elects the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-37 or Lessor elects the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-42A when the conditions in that paragraph are met—see Case B [paragraphs 842-10-55-138 through 55-140] for an example in which Lessee elects the practical expedient). In accordance with the identifying performance obligations guidance in paragraphs 606-10-25-19 through 25-22, Lessor further concludes that its maintenance services for each piece of leased equipment are distinct and therefore separate performance obligations, resulting in the conclusion that there are three separate lease components and three separate nonlease components (that is, three maintenance service performance obligations).
842-10-55-135
Lessor allocates the consideration in the contract to the separate lease components and nonlease components by applying the guidance in paragraphs 606-10-32-28 through 32-41. The consideration allocated to each separate lease component constitutes the lease payments for purposes of Lessor's accounting for those components.
842-10-55-136
Lessee allocates the consideration in the contract to the separate lease and nonlease components. Several suppliers provide maintenance services that relate to similar equipment such that there are observable standalone prices for the maintenance services for each piece of leased equipment. In addition, even though Lessor, who is the manufacturer of the equipment, requires that all leases of its equipment include maintenance services, Lessee is able to establish observable standalone prices for the three lease components on the basis of the price other lessors lease similar equipment on a standalone basis. The standalone prices for the separate lease and nonlease components are as follows.

842-10-55-137
Lessee first allocates the consideration in the contract ($600,000) to the lease and nonlease components on a relative basis, utilizing the observable standalone prices determined in paragraph 842-10-55-136. Lessee then accounts for each separate lease component in accordance with Subtopic 842-20, treating the allocated consideration as the lease payments for each lease component. The nonlease components are accounted for by Lessee in accordance with other Topics. The allocation of the consideration to the lease and nonlease components is as follows.

· · · > Case B—Lessee Elects Practical Expedient to Not Separate Lease from Nonlease Components
842-10-55-138
Assume the same facts and circumstances as in Case A (paragraphs 842-10-55-132 through 55-137), except that Lessee has made an accounting policy election to use the practical expedient to not separate nonlease from lease components for its leased construction equipment. Consequently, Lessee does not separate the maintenance services from the related lease components but, instead, accounts for the contract as containing only three lease components.
842-10-55-139
Because Lessor regularly leases each piece of equipment bundled together with maintenance services on a standalone basis, there are observable standalone prices for each of the three combined components, each of which includes the lease and the maintenance services. Because each of the three separate lease components includes the lease of the equipment and the related maintenance services, the observable standalone price for each component in this scenario is greater than the observable standalone price for each separate lease component that does not include the maintenance services in Case A.
842-10-55-140
Lessee allocates the consideration in the contract ($600,000) to the three separate lease components on a relative basis utilizing the observable standalone selling price of each separate lease component (inclusive of maintenance services) and then accounts for each separate lease component in accordance with the guidance in Subtopic 842-20, treating the allocated consideration as the lease payments for each separate lease component. The standalone prices for each of the three combined lease components is as follows.

· · > Example 12—Activities or Costs That Are Not Components of a Contract
· · · > Case A—Payments for Taxes and Insurance Are Variable
842-10-55-141
Lessor and Lessee enter into a five-year lease of a building. The contract designates that Lessee is required to pay for the costs relating to the asset, including the real estate taxes and the insurance on the building. The real estate taxes would be owed by Lessor regardless of whether it leased the building and who the lessee is. Lessor is the named insured on the building insurance policy (that is, the insurance protects Lessor's investment in the building, and Lessor will receive the proceeds from any claim). The annual lease payments are fixed at $10,000 per year, while the annual real estate taxes and insurance premium will vary and be billed by Lessor to Lessee each year.
842-10-55-142
The real estate taxes and the building insurance are not components of the contract. The contract includes a single lease component— the right to use the building. Lessee's payments of those amounts solely represent a reimbursement of Lessor's costs and do not represent payments for goods or services in addition to the right to use the building. However, because the real estate taxes and insurance premiums during the lease term are variable, those payments are variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate and are excluded from the measurement of the lease liability and recognized by Lessee in profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 842-20-25-5 or 842-20-25-6.Lessor also recognizes those payments as variable lease payments in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-40A because the real estate taxes and insurance premiums are paid by Lessor to the taxing jurisdiction and insurance company and reimbursed by Lessee to Lessor. However, if Lessee paid the costs directly to the third parties, those lessor costs would not be recognized by Lessor as variable payments because of the requirement in paragraph 842-10-15-40A.
· · · > Case B—Payment for Taxes and Insurance Are Fixed
842-10-55-143
Assume the same facts and circumstances as in Case A (paragraphs 842-10-55-141 through 55-142), except that the fixed annual lease payment is $13,000. There are no additional payments for real estate taxes or building insurance; however, the fixed payment is itemized in the contract (that is, $10,000 for rent, $2,000 for real estate taxes, and $1,000 for building insurance). Consistent with Case A, the taxes and insurance are not components of the contract. The contract includes a single lease component, the right to use the building. The $65,000 in payments Lessee will make over the 5-year lease term are all lease payments for the single component of the contract and, therefore, are included in the measurement of the lease liability.
· · · > Case C—Common Area Maintenance
842-10-55-144
Assume the same facts and circumstances as in Case B (paragraph 842-10-55-143), except that the lease is of space within the building, rather than for the entire building, and the fixed annual lease payment of $13,000 also covers Lessor's performance of common area maintenance activities (for example, cleaning of common areas, parking lot maintenance, and providing utilities to the building). Consistent with Case B, the taxes and insurance are not components of the contract. However, the common area maintenance is a component because Lessor's activities transfer services to Lessee. That is, Lessee receives a service from Lessor in the form of the common area maintenance activities it would otherwise have to undertake itself or pay another party to provide (for example, cleaning the lobby for its customers, removing snow from the parking lot for its employees and customers, and providing utilities). The common area maintenance is a single component in this contract rather than multiple components, because Lessor performs the activities as needed (for example, plows snow or undertakes minor repairs when and as necessary) over the same period of time.
842-10-55-145
Therefore, the contract in Case C includes two components—a lease component (that is, the right to use the building) and a nonlease component. The consideration in the contract of $65,000 is allocated between those 2 components (unless Lessee elects the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-37 or Lessor elects the practical expedient in paragraph 842-10-15-42A when the conditions in that paragraph are met). The amount allocated to the lease component is the lease payments in accounting for the lease.
· · > Example 13—Lease of a Turbine Plant
842-10-55-146
Lessor leases a gas-fired turbine plant to Lessee for eight years so that Lessee can produce electricity for its customers. The plant consists of the turbine housed within a building together with the land on which the building sits. The building was designed specifically to house the turbine, has a similar economic life as the turbine of approximately 15 years, and has no alternative use. The lease does not transfer ownership of any of the underlying assets to Lessee or grant Lessee an option to purchase any of the underlying assets. Lessor does not obtain a residual value guarantee from Lessee or any other unrelated third party. The present value of the lease payments is not substantially all of the aggregate fair value of the three underlying assets.
842-10-55-147
While the lease of the plant includes the lease of multiple underlying assets, the leases of those underlying assets do not meet the second criterion necessary to be separate lease components, which is that the right to use the underlying asset is neither dependent on nor highly interrelated with the other rights of use in the contract. Therefore, the contract contains only one lease component. The rights to use the turbine, the building, and the land are highly interrelated because each is an input to the customized combined item for which Lessee has contracted (that is, the right to use a gas-fired turbine plant that can produce electricity for distribution to Lessee's customers).
842-10-55-148
However, because the contract contains the lease of land, Lessee and Lessor also must consider the guidance in paragraph 842-10-15-29. Lessee and Lessor each conclude that the effect of accounting for the right to use the land as a separate lease component would be insignificant because Lessee's right to use the turbine, the building, and the land is coterminous and separating the right to use the land from the right to use the turbine and the building would not affect the lease classification of the turbine/building lease component. Lessee and Lessor each conclude that a single lease component comprising the turbine, the building, and the land would be classified as an operating lease, as would two separate lease components comprising the land and the turbine/building, respectively.
842-10-55-149
The predominant asset in the single lease component is the turbine. Lessee entered into the lease primarily to obtain the power-generation capabilities of the turbine. The building and land enable Lessee to obtain the benefits from use of the turbine. The land and building would have little, if any, use or value to Lessee in this contract without the turbine. Therefore, the remaining economic life of the turbine is considered in evaluating the classification of the single lease component.
· · > Example 14—Determining the Consideration in the Contract—Variable Payments
· · · > Case A—Variable Payments That Relate to the Lease Component and the Nonlease Component
842-10-55-150
Lessee and Lessor enter into a three-year lease of equipment that includes maintenance services on the equipment throughout the three-year lease term. Lessee will pay Lessor $100,000 per year plus an additional $7,000 each year that the equipment is operating a minimum number of hours at a specified level of productivity (that is, the equipment is not malfunctioning or inoperable). The potential $7,000 payment each year is variable because the payment depends on the equipment operating a minimum number of hours at a specified level of productivity. The lease is an operating lease.
842-10-55-151
In accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-35, variable payments other than those that depend on an index or a rate are not accounted for as consideration in the contract by Lessee. Therefore, the consideration in the contract to be allocated by Lessee to the equipment lease and the maintenance services at lease commencement includes only the fixed payments of $100,000 each year (or $300,000 in total). Lessee allocates the consideration in the contract to the equipment lease and the maintenance services on the basis of the standalone prices of each, which, for purposes of this example, are $285,000 and $45,000, respectively.

Each $100,000 annual fixed payment and each variable payment are allocated to the equipment lease and the maintenance services on the same basis as the initial allocation of the consideration in the contract (that is, 86.4 percent to the equipment lease and 13.6 percent to the maintenance services). Therefore, annual lease expense, excluding variable expense, is $86,364. Lessee recognizes the expense related to the variable payments in accordance with paragraphs 842-20-25-6 and 842-20-55-1 through 55-2.
842-10-55-152
In accordance with paragraphs 842-10-15-39 through 15-40, Lessor also concludes that the potential variable payments should not be accounted for as consideration in the contract. That is because the potential variable payment each year is not solely related to performance of the nonlease maintenance services; the quality and condition of the underlying asset also substantively affect whether Lessor will earn those amounts. Therefore, Lessor's allocation of the consideration in the contract ($300,000) in this Example is the same as Lessee. Lessor will allocate, in accordance with paragraph 842-10-15-40, the variable payments between the lease and nonlease maintenance services (on the same basis as the initial allocation of the consideration in the contract), when and if the productivity targets are met. Lessor will recognize the portion allocated to the lease at that time and will recognize the portion allocated to the nonlease maintenance services in accordance with the guidance on satisfaction of performance obligations in Topic 606 on revenue from contracts with customers.
· · · > Case B—Variable Payments That Relate Specifically to a Nonlease Component
842-10-55-153
Assume the same facts and circumstances as in Case A (paragraphs 842-10-55-150 through 55-152), except in this scenario the maintenance services are highly specialized and no entity would expect the equipment to meet the performance metrics without the specialized maintenance services.
842-10-55-154
Lessee would account for the potential variable payments consistent with Case A. The rationale for this accounting also is consistent with that in Case A.
842-10-55-155
In contrast to Case A, Lessor concludes that the variable payments relate specifically to an outcome from Lessor's performance of its maintenance services. Therefore, Lessor evaluates the variable payments in accordance with the variable consideration guidance in paragraphs 606-10-32-5 through 32-13. If Lessor estimates, using the most likely amount method, that it will be entitled to receive the $21,000 in variable payments and that it is probable that including that amount in the transaction price for the maintenance services would not result in a significant revenue reversal when the uncertainty of the performance bonus is resolved, the $21,000 would be included in the consideration in the contract. Because allocating the $21,000 entirely to the maintenance services would not result in an allocation that is consistent with the allocation objective in paragraph 606-10-32-28 (that is, it would result in allocating $61,909 to the maintenance services and the remainder to the equipment lease, which would not reasonably depict the consideration to which Lessor expects to be entitled for each component), the entire consideration in the contract of $321,000 is allocated on a relative standalone price basis as follows.

842-10-55-156
The $277,227 allocated to the equipment lease is the lease payment in accounting for the lease in accordance with Subtopic 842-30. Lessor will recognize the consideration in the contract allocated to the maintenance services in accordance with the guidance on the satisfaction of performance obligations in paragraphs 606-10-25-23 through 25-37. If the consideration in the contract changes (for example, because Lessor no longer estimates that it will receive the full $21,000 in potential variable payments), Lessor will allocate the change in the transaction price on the same basis as was initially done.
· · · > Case C—Allocating Variable Payments Entirely to a Nonlease Component
842-10-55-157
Assume the same facts and circumstances as in Case B (paragraphs 842-10-55-153 through 55-156), except that in this scenario all of the following apply:
aThe potential variable payments are $14,000 per year ($42,000 in total), and the annual fixed payments are $93,000 per year ($279,000 in total).
bWhile Lessor's estimate of the variable payments to which it will be entitled is $42,000, Lessor concludes that it is not probable that including the full $42,000 in potential variable payments in the consideration in the contract will not result in a significant revenue reversal (that is, the entity applies the constraint on variable consideration in paragraph 606-10-32-11). Lessor concludes that only $28,000 is probable of not resulting in a significant revenue reversal. Therefore, the consideration in the contract is initially $307,000 ($279,000 + $28,000).
842-10-55-158
In contrast to Case B, Lessor concludes that allocating the variable payments entirely to the maintenance services and the fixed payments entirely to the equipment lease is consistent with the allocation objective in paragraph 606-10-32-28. This is because $42,000 (Lessor considers its estimate of the variable payments to which it expects to be entitled exclusive of the constraint on variable consideration in Topic 606 on revenue recognition) and $279,000 approximate the standalone price of the maintenance services ($45,000) and the equipment lease ($285,000), respectively. Because the variable payments are allocated entirely to the maintenance services, if the consideration in the contract changes (for example, because Lessor concludes it is now probable that it will earn the full $42,000 in variable payments), that change is allocated entirely to the maintenance services component in the contract.
· > Illustrations of Lease Modifications
842-10-55-159
Examples 15 through 22 illustrate the accounting for lease modifications.
· · > Lessee
· · · > Example 15—Modification Accounted for As a Separate Contract
842-10-55-160
Lessee enters into a 10-year lease for 10,000 square feet of office space. At the beginning of Year 6, Lessee and Lessor agree to modify the lease for the remaining 5 years to include an additional 10,000 square feet of office space in the same building. The increase in the lease payments is commensurate with the market rate at the date the modification is agreed for the additional 10,000 square feet of office space.
842-10-55-161
Lessee accounts for the modification as a new contract, separate from the original contract. This is because the modification grants Lessee an additional right of use as compared with the original contract, and the increase in the lease payments is commensurate with the standalone price of the additional right of use. Accordingly, from the effective date of the modification, Lessee would have 2 separate contracts, each of which contain a single lease component—the original, unmodified contract for 10,000 square feet of office space and the new contract for 10,000 additional square feet of office space, respectively. Lessee would not make any adjustments to the accounting for the original lease as a result of this modification.
· · · > Example 16—Modification That Increases the Lease Term
· · · · > Case A—No Change in Lease Classification
842-10-55-162
Lessee and Lessor enter into a 10-year lease for 10,000 square feet of office space in a building with a remaining economic life of 50 years. Annual payments are $100,000, paid in arrears. Lessee's incremental borrowing rate at the commencement date is 6 percent. The lease is classified as an operating lease. At the beginning of Year 6, Lessee and Lessor agree to modify the lease such that the total lease term increases from 10 years to 15 years. The annual lease payments increase to $110,000 per year for the remaining 10 years after the modification. Lessee's incremental borrowing rate is 7 percent at the date the modification is agreed to by the parties.
842-10-55-163
At the beginning of Year 6, Lessee's lease liability and its right-of-use asset both equal $421,236 (that is, because the lease payments are made annually in arrears and because the lease payments are even throughout the lease term, the lease liability and right-of-use asset will be equal).
842-10-55-164
The modification does not grant an additional right of use to the lessee; rather, it changes (modifies) an attribute of the right to use the 10,000 square feet of office space Lessee already controls. That is, after the modification, Lessee still controls only a single right of use transferred to Lessee at the original lease commencement date.
842-10-55-165
Because the modification does not grant Lessee an additional right of use, the modification cannot be a separate contract. Therefore, at the effective date of the modification, Lessee reassesses classification of the lease (which does not change in this Example—see Case B [paragraphs 842-10-55-166 through 55-167] for a change in lease classification) and remeasures the lease liability on the basis of the 10-year remaining lease term, 10 remaining payments of $110,000, and its incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of the modification of 7 percent. Consequently, the modified lease liability equals $772,594. The increase to the lease liability of $351,358 is recorded as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset (that is, there is no income or loss effect from the modification).
· · · · > Case B—Change in Lease Classification
842-10-55-166
Assume the same facts as in Case A (paragraphs 842-10-55-162 through 55-165), except that the underlying asset is a piece of equipment with a 12-year remaining economic life at the effective date of the modification. Consequently, when the lessee reassesses classification of the lease in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-1 as of the effective date of the modification based on the modified rights and obligations of the parties, the lessee classifies the modified lease as a finance lease (that is, because the remaining lease term of 10 years is for a major part of the 12-year remaining economic life of the equipment).
842-10-55-167
Consistent with Case A, at the effective date of the modification, the lessee remeasures its lease liability based on the 10-year remaining lease term, 10 remaining payments of $110,000, and its incremental borrowing rate of 7 percent. Consequently, the modified lease liability equals $772,594. The increase to the lease liability of $351,358 is recorded as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset (that is, there is no income or loss effect from the modification). However, different from Case A, beginning on the effective date of the modification, Lessee accounts for the 10-year modified lease as a finance lease.
· · · > Example 17—Modification That Grants an Additional Right of Use
842-10-55-168
Lessee enters into a 10-year lease for 10,000 square feet of office space. The lease payments are $100,000 per year, paid in arrears. Lessee's incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement is 6 percent. At the beginning of Year 6, Lessee and Lessor agree to modify the contract to include an additional 10,000 square feet of office space on a different floor of the building for the final 4 years of the original 10-year lease term for a total annual fixed payment of $150,000 for the 20,000 square feet.
842-10-55-169
The increase in the lease payments (of $50,000 per year) is at a substantial discount to the market rate at the date the modification is agreed to for leases substantially similar to that for the new 10,000 square feet of office space that cannot be attributed solely to the circumstances of the contract. Consequently, Lessee does not account for the modification as a separate contract.
842-10-55-170
Instead, Lessee accounts for the modified contract, which contains 2 separate lease components—first, the original 10,000 square feet of office space and, second, the right to use the additional 10,000 square feet of office space for 4 years that commences 1 year after the effective date of the modification. There are no nonlease components of the modified contract. The total lease payments, after the modification, are $700,000 (1 payment of $100,000 + 4 payments of $150,000).
842-10-55-171
Lessee allocates the lease payments in the modified contract to the 2 separate lease components on a relative standalone price basis, which, in this Example, results in the allocation of $388,889 to the original space lease and $311,111 to the additional space lease. The allocation is based on the remaining lease terms of each separate lease component (that is, 5 years for the original 10,000-square-foot lease and 4 years for the additional 10,000-square-foot lease). The remaining lease cost for each separate lease component is equal to the total payments, as allocated, which will be recognized on a straight-line basis over their respective lease terms. Lessee remeasures the lease liability for the original space lease as of the effective date of the modification—the lease classification of which does not change as a result of the modification—on the basis of all of the following:
aA remaining lease term of 5 years
bAnnual allocated lease payments of $77,778 in Years 6 through 10 (see paragraph 842-10-55-173)
cLessee's incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of the modification of 7 percent.
842-10-55-172
The remeasured lease liability for the original space lease equals $318,904. Lessee recognizes the difference between the carrying amount of the modified lease liability and the carrying amount of the lease liability immediately before the modification of $102,332 ($421,236 - $318,904) as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset.
842-10-55-173
During Year 6, Lessee recognizes lease cost of $77,778. At the end of Year 6, Lessee makes its lease payment of $100,000, of which $77,778 is allocated to the lease of the original office space and $22,222 is allocated to the lease of the additional office space as a prepayment of rent. Lessee allocates the lease payment in this manner to reflect even payments for the even use of the separate lease components over their respective lease terms.
842-10-55-174
At the commencement date of the separate lease component for the additional office space, which is 1 year after the effective date of the modification, Lessee measures and recognizes the lease liability at $241,896 on the basis of all of the following:
aA lease term of 4 years
bFour allocated annual payments of $72,222 ([allocated lease payments of $311,111 − $22,222 rent prepayment] ÷ 4 years)
cLessee's incremental borrowing rate at the commencement date of the separate lease component for the additional office space of 7.5 percent.
842-10-55-175
At the commencement date, the right-of-use asset for the additional office space lease component is recognized and measured at $264,118 (the sum of the lease liability of $241,896 and the prepaid rent asset of $22,222).
842-10-55-176
During Years 7-10, Lessee recognizes lease cost of $77,778 each year for each separate lease component and allocates each $150,000 annual lease payment of $77,778 to the original office space lease and $72,222 to the additional office space lease.
· · · > Example 18—Modification That Decreases the Scope of a Lease
842-10-55-177
Lessee enters into a 10-year lease for 10,000 square feet of office space. The annual lease payment is initially $100,000, paid in arrears, and increases 5 percent each year during the lease term. Lessee's incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement is 6 percent. Lessee does not provide a residual value guarantee. The lease does not transfer ownership of the office space to Lessee or grant Lessee an option to purchase the space. The lease is an operating lease for all of the following reasons:
aThe lease term is 10 years, while the office building has a remaining economic life of 40 years.
bThe fair value of the office space is estimated to be significantly in excess of the present value of the lease payments.
cThe office space is expected to have an alternative use to Lessor at the end of the lease term.
842-10-55-178
At the beginning of Year 6, Lessee and Lessor agree to modify the original lease for the remaining 5 years to reduce the lease to only 5,000 square feet of the original space and to reduce the annual lease payment to $68,000. That amount will increase 5 percent each year thereafter of the remaining lease term.
842-10-55-179
The classification of the lease does not change as a result of the modification. It is clear based on the terms of the modified lease that it is not a finance lease because the modification reduces both the lease term and the lease payments. Lessee remeasures the lease liability for the modified lease at the effective date of the modification on the basis of all of the following:
aA remaining lease term of 5 years
bLease payments of $68,000 in the year of modification (Year 6), increasing by 5 percent each year thereafter
cLessee's incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of the modification of 7 percent.
842-10-55-180
The remeasured lease liability equals $306,098.
· · · · > Case A—Remeasuring the Right-of-Use Asset Based on Change in Lease Liability
842-10-55-181
The difference between the premodification liability and the modified lease liability is $284,669 ($590,767 - $306,098). That difference is 48.2 percent ($284,669 ÷ $590,767) of the premodification lease liability. The decrease in the lease liability reflects the early termination of the right to use 5,000 square feet of space (50 percent of the original leased space), the change in the lease payments, and the change in the discount rate.
842-10-55-182
Lessee decreases the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset to reflect the partial termination of the lease based on the adjustment to the carrying amount of the lease liability, with any difference recognized in profit or loss. The premodification right-of-use asset is $514,436. Therefore, at the effective date of the modification, Lessee reduces the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset by $247,888 (48.2% × $514,436). Lessee recognizes the difference between the adjustment to the lease liability and the adjustment to the right-of-use asset ($284,669 - $247,888 = $36,781) as a gain.
· · · · > Case B—Remeasuring the Right-of-Use Asset Based on the Remaining Right of Use
842-10-55-183
Lessee determines the proportionate decrease in the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset based on the remaining right-of-use asset (that is, 5,000 square feet corresponding to 50 percent of the original right-of-use asset).
842-10-55-184
Fifty percent of the premodification right-of-use asset is $257,218 (50% x $514,436). Fifty percent of the premodification lease liability is $295,384 (50% x $590,767). Consequently, Lessee decreases the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset by $257,218 and the carrying amount of the lease liability by $295,384. At the effective date of the modification, Lessee recognizes the difference between the decrease in the lease liability and the decrease in the right-of-use asset of $38,166 ($295,384 − $257,218) as a gain.
842-10-55-185
Lessee recognizes the difference between the remaining lease liability of $295,384 and the modified lease liability of $306,098 (which equals $10,714) as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset reflecting the change in the consideration paid for the lease and the revised discount rate.
· · · > Example 19—Modification That Changes the Lease Payments Only
842-10-55-186
Lessee enters into a 10-year lease for 10,000 square feet of office space. The lease payments are $95,000 in Year 1, paid in arrears, and increase by $1,000 every year thereafter. The original discount rate for the lease is 6 percent. The lease is an operating lease. At the beginning of Year 6, Lessee and Lessor agree to modify the original lease for the remaining 5 years to reduce the lease payments by $7,000 each year (that is, the lease payments will be $93,000 in Year 6 and will continue to increase by $1,000 every year thereafter). The modification only changes the lease payments and, therefore, cannot be accounted for as a separate contract. The classification of the lease does not change as a result of the modification.
842-10-55-187
Lessee remeasures the lease liability for the modified lease on the basis of all of the following:
aRemaining lease term of 5 years
bPayments of $93,000 in Year 6, increasing by $1,000 each year for the remainder of the lease term
cLessee's incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of the modification of 7 percent.
842-10-55-188
The remeasured lease liability equals $388,965. Lessee recognizes the difference between the carrying amount of the modified lease liability and the lease liability immediately before the effective date of the modification of $40,206 ($429,171 premodification lease liability - $388,965 modified lease liability) as a corresponding reduction to the right-of-use asset. Therefore, the adjusted right-of-use asset equals $376,465 as of the effective date of the modification. Lessee calculates its remaining lease cost as $462,500 (the sum of the total lease payments, as adjusted for the effects of the lease modification, of $960,000 reduced by the total lease cost recognized in prior periods of $497,500), which it will recognize on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
842-10-55-189
During Year 6, Lessee recognizes lease cost of $92,500 ($462,500 remaining lease cost ÷ 5 years). As of the end of Year 6, Lessee's lease liability equals $323,193 (present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted at 7 percent), and its right-of-use asset equals $311,193 (the balance of the lease liability - the remaining accrued rent balance of $12,000). Lessee recognizes additional lease cost of $92,500 each year of the remaining lease term and measures its lease liability and right-of-use asset in the same manner as at the end of Year 6 each remaining year of the lease term. The following are the balances of the lease liability and the right-of-use asset at the end of Years 7 through 10 of the lease.

· · > Lessor
· · · > Example 20—Modification of an Operating Lease That Does Not Change Lease Classification
842-10-55-190
Lessor enters into a 10-year lease with Lessee for 10,000 square feet of office space. The annual lease payments are $100,000 in the first year, increasing by 5 percent each year thereafter, payable in arrears. The lease term is not for a major part of the remaining economic life of the office space (40 years), and the present value of the lease payments is not substantially all of the fair value of the office space. Furthermore, the title does not transfer to Lessee as a consequence of the lease, the lease does not contain an option for Lessee to purchase the office space, and the asset is not specialized such that it clearly has an alternative use to Lessor at the end of the lease term. Consequently, the lease is classified as an operating lease.
842-10-55-191
At the beginning of Year 6, Lessee and Lessor agree to amend the original lease for the remaining 5 years to include an additional 10,000 square feet of office space in the same building for a total annual fixed payment of $150,000. The increase in total consideration is at a discount both to the current market rate for the new 10,000 square feet of office space and in the context of that particular contract. The modified lease continues to be classified as an operating lease.
842-10-55-192
At the effective date of the modification (at the beginning of Year 6), Lessor has an accrued lease rental asset of $76,331 (rental income recognized on a straight-line basis for the first 5 years of the lease of $628,895 [$1,257,789 ÷ 10 years = $125,779 per year] less lease payments for the first 5 years of $552,564 [that is, $100,000 in Year 1, $105,000 in Year 2, $110,250 in Year 3, $115,763 in Year 4, and $121,551 in Year 5]).
842-10-55-193
Because the change in pricing of the lease is not commensurate with the standalone price for the additional right-of-use asset, Lessor does not account for the modification as a new lease, separate from the original 10-year lease. Instead, Lessor accounts for the modified lease prospectively from the effective date of the modification, recognizing the lease payments to be made under the modified lease of $750,000 ($150,000 × 5 years), net of Lessor's accrued rent asset of $76,331, on a straight-line basis over the remaining 5-year lease term ($673,669 ÷ 5 years = $134,734 per year). At the end of the lease, Lessor will have recognized as lease income the $1,302,564 in lease payments it receives from Lessee during the 10-year lease term.
· · · > Example 21—Modification of an Operating Lease That Changes Lease Classification
· · · · > Case A—Operating Lease to Sales-Type Lease
842-10-55-194
Lessor enters into a four-year lease of a piece of nonspecialized equipment. The annual lease payments are $81,000 in the first year, increasing by 5 percent each year thereafter, payable in arrears. The estimated residual value of the equipment is $90,000, of which none is guaranteed. The remaining economic life of the equipment at lease commencement is seven years. The carrying amount of the equipment and its fair value are both $425,000 at the commencement date. The lease is not for a major part of the remaining economic life of the equipment, and the present value of the lease payments is not substantially all of the fair value of the equipment. Furthermore, title does not transfer to Lessee as a result of the lease, the lease does not contain an option for Lessee to purchase the underlying asset, and because the asset is nonspecialized, it is expected to have an alternative use to Lessor at the end of the lease term. Consequently, the lease is classified as an operating lease.
842-10-55-195
At the beginning of Year 3, Lessee and Lessor agree to extend the lease term by two years. That is, the modified lease is now a six-year lease, as compared with the original four-year lease. The additional two years were not an option when the original lease was negotiated. The modification alters the Lessee's right to use the equipment; it does not grant Lessee an additional right of use. Therefore, Lessor does not account for the modification as a separate contract from the original four-year lease contract.
842-10-55-196
On the effective date of the modification, the fair value of the equipment is $346,250, and the remaining economic life of the equipment is 5 years. The estimated residual value of the equipment is $35,000, of which none is guaranteed. The modified lease is for a major part of the remaining economic life of the equipment at the effective date of the modification (four years out of the five-year-remaining economic life of the equipment). Consequently, the modified lease is classified as a sales-type lease.
842-10-55-197
In accounting for the modification, Lessor determines the discount rate for the modified lease (that is, the rate implicit in the modified lease) to be 7.6 percent. Lessor recognizes the net investment in the modified lease of $346,250 and derecognizes both the accrued rent and the equipment at the effective date of the modification. Lessor also recognizes, in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-15(b), selling profit of $34,169 ($320,139 lease receivable - $8,510 accrued rent balance - the $277,460 carrying amount of the equipment derecognized, net of the unguaranteed residual asset [$277,460 = $303,571 - $26,111]). After the effective date of the modification, Lessor accounts for the modified lease in the same manner as any other sales-type lease in accordance with Subtopic 842-30.
· · · · > Case B—Operating Lease to Direct Financing Lease
842-10-55-198
At the beginning of Year 3, Lessee and Lessor enter into a modification to extend the lease term by 1 year, and Lessee agrees to make lease payments of $108,000 per year for each of the remaining 3 years of the modified lease. No other terms of the contract are modified. Concurrent with the execution of the modification, Lessor obtains a residual value guarantee from an unrelated third party for $40,000. Consistent with Case A (paragraphs 842-10-55-194 through 55-197), at the effective date of the modification the fair value of the equipment is $346,250, the carrying amount of the equipment is $303,571, and Lessor's accrued rent balance is $8,510. The estimated residual value at the end of the modified lease term is $80,000. The discount rate for the modified lease is 7.356 percent.
842-10-55-199
Lessor reassesses the lease classification as of the effective date of the modification and concludes that the modified lease is a direct financing lease because none of the criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-2 and both criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-3(b) are met.
842-10-55-200
Therefore, at the effective date of the modification, Lessor recognizes a net investment in the modified lease of $312,081, which is the fair value of the equipment ($346,250) less the selling profit on the lease ($34,169 = $313,922 lease receivable - $8,510 accrued rent balance - the $271,243 carrying amount of the equipment derecognized, net of the unguaranteed residual asset [$271,243 = $303,571 - $32,328]), which is deferred as part of the net investment in the lease. After the effective date of the modification, Lessor accounts for the modified lease in the same manner as any other direct financing lease in accordance with Subtopic 842-30.
· · · > Example 22—Modification of a Direct Financing Lease
842-10-55-201
Lessor enters into a six-year lease of a piece of new, nonspecialized equipment with a nine-year economic life. The annual lease payments are $11,000, payable in arrears. The estimated residual value of the equipment is $21,000, of which $15,000 is guaranteed by a third-party unrelated to Lessee or Lessor. The lease does not contain an option for Lessee to purchase the equipment, and the title does not transfer to Lessee as a consequence of the lease. The fair value of the equipment at lease commencement is $65,240, which is equal to its cost (and carrying amount). Lessor incurs no initial direct costs in connection with the lease. The rate implicit in the lease is 7.5 percent such that the present value of the lease payments is $51,632 and does not amount to substantially all of the fair value of the equipment.
842-10-55-202
The Lessor concludes that the lease is not a sales-type lease because none of the criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-2 are met. However, the sum of the present value of the lease payments and the present value of the residual value of the underlying asset guaranteed by the third-party guarantor is $61,352, which is substantially all of the fair value of the equipment, and collectibility of the lease payments is probable. Consequently, the lease is classified as a direct financing lease. Lessor recognizes the net investment in the lease of $65,240 (which includes the lease receivable of $61,352 and the present value of the unguaranteed residual value of $3,888 [the present value of the difference between the expected residual value of $21,000 and the guaranteed residual value of $15,000]) and derecognizes the equipment with a carrying amount of $65,240.
842-10-55-203
At the end of Year 1, Lessor receives a lease payment of $11,000 from Lessee and recognizes interest income of $4,893 ($65,240 × 7.5%). Therefore, the carrying amount of the net investment in the lease is $59,133 ($65,240 + $4,893 - $11,000).
· · · · > Case A—Direct Financing Lease to Direct Financing Lease
842-10-55-204
At the end of Year 1, the lease term is reduced by 1 year and the annual lease payment is reduced to $10,000 for the remaining 4 years of the modified lease term. The estimated residual value of the equipment at the end of the modified lease term is $33,000, of which $30,000 is guaranteed by the unrelated third party, while the fair value of the equipment is $56,000. The remaining economic life of the equipment is 8 years, and the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the rate implicit in the modified lease of 8.857 percent, is $32,499. Lessor concludes that the modified lease is not a sales-type lease because none of the criteria in paragraph 842-10-25-2 are met. However, the sum of the present value of the lease payments and the present value of the residual value of the underlying asset guaranteed by the third-party guarantor, discounted using the rate implicit in the modified lease of 8.857 percent, is $53,864, which is substantially all of the fair value of the equipment, and collectibility of the lease payments is probable. As such, the modified lease is classified as a direct financing lease.
842-10-55-205
In accounting for the modification in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-16(a), Lessor carries forward the balance of the net investment in the lease of $59,133 immediately before the effective date of the modification as the opening balance of the net investment in the modified lease. To retain the same net investment in the lease even while the lease payments, the lease term, and the estimated residual value have all changed, Lessor adjusts the discount rate for the lease from the rate implicit in the modified lease of 8.857 percent to 6.95 percent. This discount rate is used to calculate interest income on the net investment in the lease throughout the remaining term of the modified lease and will result, at the end of the modified lease term, in a net investment balance that equals the estimated residual value of the underlying asset of $33,000.
· · · · > Case B—Direct Financing Lease to Sales-Type Lease
842-10-55-206
At the end of Year 1, the lease term is extended for two years. The lease payments remain $11,000 annually, paid in arrears, for the remainder of the lease term. The estimated residual value is $6,500, of which none is guaranteed. The rate implicit in the modified lease is 7.58 percent. At the effective date of the modification, the remaining economic life of the equipment is 8 years, and the fair value of the equipment is $62,000. Because the modified lease term is now for the major part of the remaining economic life of the equipment, the modified lease is classified as a sales-type lease.
842-10-55-207
On the effective date of the modification, Lessor recognizes a net investment in the sales-type lease of $62,000, which is equal to the fair value of the equipment at the effective date of the modification, and derecognizes the carrying amount of the net investment in the original direct financing lease of $59,133. The difference of $2,867 is the selling profit on the modified lease. After the effective date of the modification, Lessor accounts for the sales-type lease in the same manner as any other sales-type lease in accordance with Subtopic 842-30.
· · · · > Case C—Direct Financing Lease to Operating Lease
842-10-55-208
At the end of Year 1, the lease term is reduced by 2 years, and the lease payments are reduced to $9,000 per year for the remaining 3-year lease term. The estimated residual value is revised to $33,000, of which only $13,000 is guaranteed by an unrelated third party. The fair value of the equipment at the effective date of the modification is $56,000. The modified lease does not transfer the title of the equipment to Lessee or grant Lessee an option to purchase the equipment. The modified lease is classified as an operating lease because it does not meet any of the criteria to be classified as a sales-type lease or as a direct financing lease.
842-10-55-209
Therefore, at the effective date of the modification, Lessor derecognizes the net investment in the lease, which has a carrying amount of $59,133, and recognizes the equipment at that amount. Collectibility of the lease payments is probable; therefore, Lessor will recognize the $27,000 ($9,000 × 3 years) in lease payments on a straight-line basis over the 3-year modified lease term, as well as depreciation on the rerecognized equipment.
· > Illustration of Lessee Accounting for Purchase Options
842-10-55-210
Examples 23 through 24 illustrate the evaluation of whether a lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to purchase the underlying asset.
· · > Example 23—Lessee Purchase Option
842-10-55-211
Lessee enters into a 5-year lease of equipment with annual lease payments of $59,000, payable at the end of each year. There are no initial direct costs incurred by Lessee or lease incentives. At the end of Year 5, Lessee has an option to purchase the equipment for $5,000. The expected residual value of the equipment at the end of the lease is $75,000. Because the exercise price of the purchase option is significantly discounted from the expected fair value of the equipment at the time the purchase option becomes exercisable, Lessee concludes that it is reasonably certain to exercise the purchase option. The fair value of the equipment at the commencement date is $250,000, and its economic life is 7 years. The discount rate for the lease, which is Lessee's incremental borrowing rate because the rate implicit in the lease is not available, is 6.5 percent.
842-10-55-212
Because the lease grants Lessee an option to purchase the underlying asset that it is reasonably certain to exercise, Lessee classifies the lease as a finance lease.
842-10-55-213
Lessee recognizes the lease liability at the commencement date at $248,834 (the present value of 5 payments of $59,000 + the present value of the $5,000 payment for the purchase option, discounted at 6.5%). Because there are no initial direct costs, lease incentives, or other payments made to Lessor at or before the commencement date, Lessee recognizes the right-of-use asset at the same amount as the lease liability.
842-10-55-214
Lessee amortizes the right-of-use asset over the seven-year expected useful life of the equipment, rather than over the lease term of five years, because Lessee is reasonably certain to exercise the option to purchase the equipment. Lessee depreciates its owned assets on a straight-line basis. Therefore, the right-of-use asset is amortized on a straight-line basis.
842-10-55-215
During the first year of the lease, Lessee recognizes interest expense on the lease liability of $16,174 (6.5% × $248,834) and amortization of the right-of-use asset of $35,548 ($248,834 ÷ 7).
842-10-55-216
At the end of Year 1, the right-of-use asset is $213,286 ($248,834 - $35,548), and the lease liability is $206,008 ($248,834 + $16,174 - $59,000).
842-10-55-217
At the end of Year 5, the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is $71,094 ($248,834 - [$35,548 × 5]), and the remaining lease liability is $5,000, which is the exercise price of the purchase option. Lessee exercises the purchase option and settles the remaining lease liability. If the right-of-use asset was not previously presented together with property, plant, and equipment, Lessee reclassifies the right-of-use asset to property, plant, and equipment and applies Topic 360 to the asset beginning on the date the purchase option is exercised.
· · > Example 24—Lessee Purchase Option
842-10-55-218
Lessee enters into a 5-year lease of specialized equipment with annual lease payments of $65,000, payable in arrears. There are no initial direct costs or lease incentives. At the end of Year 5, Lessee has an option to purchase the equipment for $90,000, which is the expected fair value of the equipment at that date. Lessor constructed the equipment specifically for the needs of Lessee. Furthermore, the specialized equipment is vital to Lessee's business; without this asset, Lessee would be required to halt operations while a new asset was built or customized. As such, Lessee concludes that it is reasonably certain to exercise the purchase option because the specialized nature, specifications of the asset, and its role in Lessee's operations create a significant economic incentive for Lessee to do so. The fair value of the equipment at the commencement date is $440,000, and its economic life is 10 years. Lessee's incremental borrowing rate is 6.5 percent, which reflects the fixed rate at which Lessee could borrow an amount similar to that of the lease payments ([$65,000 x 5 lease payments] + the $90,000 purchase option exercise price = $415,000) in the same currency, for the same term, and with similar collateral as in the lease at the commencement date.
842-10-55-219
The lease grants Lessee an option to purchase the underlying asset that it is reasonably certain to exercise. In addition, the underlying asset is of such a specialized nature that it is expected to have no alternative use to Lessor at the end of the lease term. As such, Lessee classifies the lease as a finance lease.
842-10-55-220
Lessee recognizes the lease liability at the commencement date at $335,808 (the present value of 5 payments of $65,000 + the present value of the $90,000 payment for the purchase option to be made at the end of Year 5, discounted at 6.5%). Because there are no initial direct costs, lease incentives, or other payments made to Lessor at or before the commencement date, Lessee recognizes the right-of-use asset at the same amount as the lease liability.
842-10-55-221
Lessee amortizes the right-of-use asset over the 10-year expected useful life of the equipment rather than over the lease term of 5 years, because Lessee is reasonably certain to exercise the option to purchase the equipment. Lessee depreciates its owned assets on a straight-line basis. Therefore, the right-of-use asset is amortized on a straight-line basis.
842-10-55-222
During the first year of the lease, Lessee recognizes interest expense on the lease liability of $21,828 (6.5% × $335,808) and amortization of the right-of-use asset of $33,581 ($335,808 ÷ 10).
842-10-55-223
At the end of Year 1, the right-of-use asset is $302,227 ($335,808 - $33,581), and the lease liability is $292,636 ($335,808 + $21,828 - $65,000).
842-10-55-224
At the end of Year 5, the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is $167,903 ($335,808 - $33,581 × 5), and the remaining lease liability is $90,000, which is the amount of the purchase option. Lessee exercises the option to purchase the equipment and settles the remaining lease liability. If the right-of-use asset was not previously presented together with property, plant, and equipment, Lessee reclassifies the right-of-use asset to property, plant, and equipment and will apply Topic 360 to the equipment beginning on the date the purchase option is exercised.
· > Illustrations of Lessee Accounting for Variable Lease Payments
842-10-55-225
Example 25 illustrates how a lessee accounts for variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate and variable lease payments that are linked to performance.
· · > Example 25—Variable Lease Payments That Depend on an Index or a Rate and Variable Lease Payments Linked to Performance
· · · > Case A—Variable Lease Payments That Depend on an Index or a Rate
842-10-55-226
Lessee enters into a 10-year lease of a building with annual lease payments of $100,000, payable at the beginning of each year. The contract specifies that lease payments for each year will increase on the basis of the increase in the Consumer Price Index for the preceding 12 months. The Consumer Price Index at the commencement date is 125. This Example ignores any initial direct costs. The lease is classified as an operating lease.
842-10-55-227
The rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. Lessee's incremental borrowing rate is 8 percent, which reflects the rate at which Lessee could borrow an amount equal to the lease payment in the same currency, over a similar term, and with similar collateral as in the lease.
842-10-55-228
At the commencement date, Lessee makes the lease payment for the first year and measures the lease liability at $624,689 (the present value of 9 payments of $100,000 discounted at the rate of 8 percent). The right-of-use asset is equal to the lease liability plus the prepaid rent ($724,689).
842-10-55-229
Lessee prepares financial statements on an annual basis. Lessee determines the cost of the lease to be $1 million (the total lease payments for the lease term). The annual lease expense to be recognized is $100,000 ($1 million ÷ 10 years).
842-10-55-230
At the end of the first year of the lease, the Consumer Price Index is 128. Lessee calculates the payment for the second year, adjusted to the Consumer Price Index, to be $102,400 ($100,000 × 128 ÷ 125).
842-10-55-231
Because Lessee has not remeasured the lease liability for another reason, Lessee does not make an adjustment to the lease liability to reflect the Consumer Price Index at the end of the reporting period; that is, the lease liability continues to reflect annual lease payments of $100,000 (8 remaining annual payments of $100,000, discounted at the rate of 8 percent is $574,664). However, the Year 2 payment amount of $102,400 (the $100,000 annual fixed payment + $2,400 variable lease payment) will be recognized in profit or loss for Year 2 of the lease and classified as cash flow from operations in Lessee's statement of cash flows. In its quantitative disclosures, Lessee will include $100,000 of the $102,400 in its disclosure of operating lease cost and $2,400 in its disclosure of variable lease cost.
· · · > Case B—Variable Lease Payments Linked to Performance
842-10-55-232
Lessee enters into a 10-year lease of a building with annual lease payments of $100,000, payable at the beginning of each year. The contract specifies that Lessee also is required to make variable lease payments each year of the lease, which are determined as 2 percent of Lessee's sales generated from the building.
842-10-55-233
At the commencement date, Lessee measures the lease liability and right-of-use asset at the same amounts as in Case A (paragraphs 842-10-55-226 through 55-231) because the 2 percent royalty that will be paid each year to Lessor under the lease is a variable lease payment, which means that payment is not included in the measurement of the lease liability (or the right-of-use asset) at any point during the lease.
842-10-55-234
During the first year of the lease, Lessee generates sales of $1.2 million from the building and, therefore, recognizes total lease cost of $124,000 ($100,000 + [2% × $1.2 million]). In its quantitative disclosures, Lessee will include $100,000 of the $124,000 in its disclosure of operating lease cost and $24,000 in its disclosure of variable lease cost.
· > Illustration of Lessee Accounting for Termination Penalties
842-10-55-235
Example 26 illustrates how a lessee accounts for termination penalties.
· · > Example 26—Termination Penalties
842-10-55-236
Lessee enters into a 10-year lease of an asset, which it can terminate at the end of each year beginning at the end of Year 6. Lease payments are $50,000 per year during the 10-year term, payable at the beginning of each year. If Lessee terminates the lease at the end of Year 6, Lessee must pay a penalty to Lessor of $20,000. The termination penalty decreases by $5,000 in each successive year.
842-10-55-237
At the commencement date, Lessee concludes that it is not reasonably certain it will continue to use the underlying asset after Year 6, having considered both the significance of the termination penalty (in absolute terms and in relation to the remaining lease payments after the date the termination option becomes exercisable) and the other factors in paragraph 842-10-55-26.
842-10-55-238
Accordingly, Lessee determines that the lease term is six years. At the commencement date, Lessee measures the lease liability on the basis of lease payments of $50,000 for 6 years plus the penalty of $20,000 payable at the end of Year 6.
· > Illustration of Initial Direct Costs
842-10-55-239
Example 27 illustrates initial direct costs.
· · > Example 27—Initial Direct Costs
842-10-55-240
Lessee and Lessor enter into an operating lease. The following costs are incurred in connection with the lease:

842-10-55-241
Lessor capitalizes initial direct costs of $10,000, which it recognizes ratably over the lease term, consistent with its recognition of lease income. The $10,000 in broker commissions is an initial direct cost because that cost was incurred only as a direct result of obtaining the lease (that is, only as a direct result of the lease being executed). None of the other costs incurred by Lessor meet the definition of initial direct costs because they would have been incurred even if the lease had not been executed. For example, the employee salaries are paid regardless of whether the lease is obtained, and Lessor would be required to pay its attorneys for negotiating and drafting the lease even if Lessee did not execute the lease.
842-10-55-242
Lessee includes $20,000 of initial direct costs in the initial measurement of the right-of-use asset. Lessee amortizes those costs ratably over the lease term as part of its total lease cost. Throughout the lease term, any unamortized amounts from the original $20,000 are included in the measurement of the right-of-use asset. The $20,000 payment to the existing tenant is an initial direct cost because that cost is only incurred upon obtaining the lease; it would not have been owed if the lease had not been executed. None of the other costs incurred by Lessee meet the definition of initial direct costs because they would have been incurred even if the lease had not been executed (for example, the employee salaries are paid regardless of whether the lease is obtained, and Lessee would be required to pay its attorneys for negotiating and drafting the lease even if the lease was not executed).
· > Illustrations of Transition
· · > Illustration of Lessee Transition—Existing Capital Lease
842-10-55-243
Example 28 illustrates lessee accounting for the transition of existing capital leases when an entity elects the transition method in paragraph 842-10-65-1(c)(1).
· · · > Example 28—Lessee Transition—Existing Capital Lease
842-10-55-244
The effective date of the guidance in this Topic for Lessee is January 1, 20X4. Lessee enters into a 7-year lease of an asset on January 1, 20X1, with annual lease payments of $25,000 payable at the end of each year. The lease includes a residual value guarantee by Lessee of $8,190. Lessee's incremental borrowing rate on the date of commencement was 6 percent. Lessee accounts for the lease as a capital lease. At lease commencement, Lessee defers initial direct costs of $2,800, which will be amortized over the lease term. On January 1, 20X2 (and before transition adjustments), Lessee has a lease liability of $128,707, a lease asset of $124,434, and unamortized initial direct costs of $2,400.
842-10-55-245
January 1, 20X2 is the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements in which Lessee first applies the guidance in this Topic. Lessee has elected the package of practical expedients in paragraph 842-10-65-1(f). As such, Lessee accounts for the lease as a finance lease, without reassessing whether the contract contains a lease or whether classification of the lease would be different in accordance with this Topic. Lessee also does not reassess whether the unamortized initial direct costs on January 1, 20X2, would have met the definition of initial direct costs in this Topic at lease commencement.
842-10-55-246
On January 1, 20X2, Lessee recognizes a lease liability at the carrying amount of the capital lease obligation on December 31, 20X1, of $128,707 and a right-of-use asset at the carrying amount of the capital lease asset of $126,834 (which includes unamortized initial direct costs of $2,400 that were included in the capital lease asset). Lessee subsequently measures the lease liability and the right-of-use asset in accordance with Subtopic 840-30 until the effective date.
842-10-55-247
Beginning on the effective date, Lessee applies the subsequent measurement guidance in Section 842-20-35, including the reassessment requirements, except for the requirement to reassess amounts probable of being owed under residual value guarantees. Such amounts will only be reassessed if there is a remeasurement of the lease liability for another reason, including as a result of a lease modification (that is, not accounted for as a separate contract).
· · > Illustration of Lessee Transition—Existing Operating Lease
842-10-55-248
Example 29 illustrates lessee accounting for the transition of existing operating leases when an entity elects the transition method in paragraph 842-10-65-1(c)(1).
· · · > Example 29—Lessee Transition—Existing Operating Lease
842-10-55-249
The effective date of the guidance in this Topic for Lessee is January 1, 20X4. Lessee enters into a five-year lease of an asset on January 1, 20X1, with annual lease payments payable at the end of each year. Lessee accounts for the lease as an operating lease. At lease commencement, Lessee defers initial direct costs of $500, which will be amortized over the lease term. On January 1, 20X2 (and before transition adjustments), Lessee has an accrued rent liability of $1,200 for the lease, reflecting rent that was previously recognized as an expense but was not yet paid as of that date. Four lease payments (1 payment of $31,000 followed by 3 payments of $33,000) and unamortized initial direct costs of $400 remain.
842-10-55-250
January 1, 20X2 is the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements in which Lessee first applies the guidance in this Topic. On January 1, 20X2, Lessee's incremental borrowing rate is 6 percent. Lessee has elected the package of practical expedients in paragraph 842-10-65-1(f). As such, Lessee accounts for the lease as an operating lease, without reassessing whether the contract contains a lease or whether classification of the lease would be different in accordance with this Topic. Lessee also does not reassess whether the unamortized initial direct costs on January 1, 20X2, would have met the definition of initial direct costs in this Topic at lease commencement.
842-10-55-251
On January 1, 20X2, Lessee measures the lease liability at $112,462, which is the present value of 1 payment of $31,000 and 3 payments of $33,000 discounted using the rate of 6 percent. The right-of-use asset is equal to the lease liability before adjustment for accrued rent and unamortized initial direct costs, which were not reassessed because Lessee elected the practical expedients in paragraph 842-10-65-1(f).
842-10-55-252
On January 1, 20X2, Lessee recognizes a lease liability of $112,462 and a right-of-use asset of $111,662 ($112,462 - $1,200 + $400).
842-10-55-253
From the transition date (January 1, 20X2) on, Lessee will continue to measure and recognize the lease liability at the present value of the sum of the remaining minimum rental payments (as that term was applied under Topic 840) and the right-of-use asset in accordance with this Topic.
842-10-55-254
Beginning on the effective date of January 1, 20X4, Lessee applies the subsequent measurement guidance in Section 842-20-35, including the reassessment requirements.
65 Transition and Open Effective Date Information
General
> Transition Related to Accounting Standards Updates No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), No. 2018-01, Leases (Topic 842): Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements, No. 2018-20, Leases (Topic 842): Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors, No. 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842): Codification Improvements, No. 2019-10, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates, No. 2020-05, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates for Certain Entities, No. 2021-05, Leases (Topic 842): Lessors—Certain Leases with Variable Lease Payments, No. 2021-09, Leases (Topic 842): Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not Public Business Entities, and No. 2023-01, Leases (Topic 842): Common Control Arrangements
842-10-65-1
The following represents the transition and effective date information related to Accounting Standards Updates No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), No. 2018-01, Leases (Topic 842): Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases,No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements, No. 2018-20, Leases (Topic 842): Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors, No. 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842): Codification Improvements, No. 2019-10, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates, No. 2020-05, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates for Certain Entities, No. 2021-05, Leases (Topic 842): Lessors—Certain Leases with Variable Lease Payments, No. 2021-09, Leases (Topic 842): Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not Public Business Entities, and No. 2023-01, Leases (Topic 842): Common Control Arrangements: [Note: See paragraph 842-10-S65-1 for an SEC Staff Announcement on transition related to Update 2016-02.]
aA public business entity, a not-for-profit entity that has issued or is a conduit bond obligor for securities that are traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter market (with an exception for those entities that have not yet issued their financial statements or made financial statements available for issuance as described in the following sentence), and an employee benefit plan that files or furnishes financial statements with or to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. A not-for-profit entity that has issued or is a conduit bond obligor for securities that are traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter market that has not yet issued financial statements or made financial statements available for issuance as of June 3, 2020 shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Earlier application is permitted.
bAll other entities shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022. Earlier application is permitted.
cIn the financial statements in which an entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph, the entity shall recognize and measure leases within the scope of the pending content that links to this paragraph that exist at the application date, as determined by the transition method that the entity elects. An entity shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph using one of the following two methods:
1Retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented in the financial statements with the cumulative effect of initially applying the pending content that links to this paragraph recognized at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, subject to the guidance in (d) through (gg). Under this transition method, the application date shall be the later of the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements and the commencement date of the lease.
2Retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption through a cumulative-effect adjustment, subject to the guidance in (d) through (gg). Under this transition method, the application date shall be the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph.
dAn entity shall adjust equity and, if the entity elects the transition method in (c)(1), the other comparative amounts disclosed for each prior period presented in the financial statements, as if the pending content that links to this paragraph had always been applied, subject to the requirements in (e) through (gg).
eIf a lessee elects not to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in the pending content that links to this paragraph to short-term leases, the lessee shall not apply the approach described in (k) through (t) to short-term leases.
See Examples 28 through 29 (paragraphs 842-10-55-243 through 55-254) for illustrations of the transition requirementsfor an entity that applies the pending content that links to this paragraph in accordance with (c)(1).
Practical expedients
fAn entity may elect the following practical expedients, which must be elected as a package and applied consistently by an entity to all of its leases (including those for which the entity is a lessee or a lessor), when applying the pending content that links to this paragraph to leases that commenced before the effective date:
1An entity need not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases.
2An entity need not reassess the lease classification for any expired or existing leases (for example, all existing leases that were classified as operating leases in accordance with Topic 840 will be classified as operating leases, and all existing leases that were classified as capital leases in accordance with Topic 840 will be classified as finance leases).
3An entity need not reassess initial direct costs for any existing leases.
gAn entity also may elect a practical expedient, which must be applied consistently by an entity to all of its leases (including those for which the entity is a lessee or a lessor) to use hindsight in determining the lease term (that is, when considering lessee options to extend or terminate the lease and to purchase the underlying asset) and in assessing impairment of the entity's right-of-use assets. This practical expedient may be elected separately or in conjunction with either one or both of the practical expedients in (f) and (gg).
ggAn entity also may elect a practical expedient to not assess whether existing or expired land easements that were not previously accounted for as leases under Topic 840 are or contain a lease under this Topic. For purposes of (gg), a land easement (also commonly referred to as a right of way) refers to a right to use, access, or cross another entity's land for a specified purpose. This practical expedient shall be applied consistently by an entity to all its existing and expired land easements that were not previously accounted for as leases under Topic 840. This practical expedient may be elected separately or in conjunction with either one or both of the practical expedients in (f) and (g). An entity that elects this practical expedient for existing or expired land easements shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph to land easements entered into (or modified) on or after the date that the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph as described in (a) and (b). An entity that previously accounted for existing or expired land easements as leases under Topic 840 shall not be eligible for this practical expedient for those land easements.
Amounts previously recognized in respect of business combinations
hIf an entity has previously recognized an asset or a liability in accordance with Topic 805 on business combinations relating to favorable or unfavorable terms of an operating lease acquired as part of a business combination, the entity shall do all of the following:
1Derecognize that asset and liability (except for those arising from leases that are classified as operating leases in accordance with Topic 842 for which the entity is a lessor).
2Adjust the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset by a corresponding amount if the entity is a lessee.
3Make a corresponding adjustment to equity if assets or liabilities arise from leases that are classified as sales-type leases or direct financing leases in accordance with Topic 842 for which the entity is a lessor. Also see (w).
Disclosure
iAn entity shall provide the transition disclosures required by Topic 250 on accounting changes and error corrections, except for the requirements in paragraph 250-10-50-1(b)(2)and paragraph 250-10-50-3.An entity that elects the transition method in (c)(2) shall provide the transition disclosures in paragraph 250-10-50-1(b)(3) as of the beginning of the period of adoption rather than at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Note: See paragraph 250-10-S99-6 on disclosure of the impact that recently issued accounting standards will have on the financial statements of a registrant.
jIf an entity uses one or more of the practical expedients in (f), (g), and (gg), it shall disclose that fact.
jjAn entity electing the transition method in (c)(2) shall provide the required Topic 840 disclosures for all periods that continue to be in accordance with Topic 840.
Lessees
Leases previously classified as operating leases under Topic 840
kA lessee shall initially recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the application date as determined in (c).
lUnless, on or after the effective date, the lease is modified (and that modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8) or the lease liability is required to be remeasured in accordance with paragraph 842-20-35-4, a lessee shall measure the lease liability at the present value of the sum of the following, using a discount rate for the lease (which, for entities that are not public business entities, can be a risk-free rate determined in accordance with paragraph 842-20-30-3) established at the application date as determined in (c):
1The remaining minimum rental payments (as defined under Topic 840).
2Any amounts probable of being owed by the lessee under a residual value guarantee.
mFor each lease classified as an operating lease in accordance with paragraphs 842-10-25-2 through 25-3, a lessee shall initially measure the right-of-use asset at the initial measurement of the lease liability adjusted for both of the following:
1The items in paragraph 842-20-35-3(b), as applicable.
2The carrying amount of any liability recognized in accordance with Topic 420 on exit or disposal cost obligations for the lease.
nFor each lease classified as an operating lease in accordance with paragraphs 842-10-25-2 through 25-3, a lessee shall subsequently measure the right-of-use asset throughout the remaining lease term in accordance with paragraph 842-20-35-3(b). If the initial measurement of the right-of-use asset in (m) is adjusted for the carrying amount of a liability recognized in accordance with Topic 420 on exit or disposal cost obligations for the lease, the lessee shall apply the recognition and subsequent measurement guidance in Sections 842-20-25 and 842-20-35, respectively, when the right-of-use asset has been impaired.
oFor each lease classified as a finance lease in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-2, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset as the applicable proportion of the lease liability at the commencement date, which can be imputed from the lease liability determined in accordance with (l). The applicable proportion is the remaining lease term at the application date as determined in (c) relative to the total lease term. A lessee shall adjust the right-of-use asset recognized by the carrying amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments and the carrying amount of any liability recognized in accordance with Topic 420 for the lease.
pIf a lessee does not elect the practical expedients described in (f), any unamortized initial direct costs that do not meet the definition of initial direct costs in this Topic shall be written off as an adjustment to equity unless the entity elects the transition method in (c)(1) and the costs were incurred after the beginning of the earliest period presented, in which case those costs shall be written off as an adjustment to earnings in the period the costs were incurred.
qIf a modification to the contractual terms and conditions occurs on or after the effective date, and the modification does not result in a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8, or the lessee is required to remeasure the lease liability for any reason (see paragraphs 842-20-35-4 through 35-5), the lessee shall follow the requirements in this Topic from the effective date of the modification or the remeasurement date.
Leases previously classified as capital leases under Topic 840
rFor each lease classified as a finance lease in accordance with this Topic, a lessee shall do all of the following:
1Recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the carrying amount of the lease asset and the capital lease obligation in accordance with Topic 840 at the application date as determined in (c).
2Include any unamortized initial direct costs that meet the definition of initial direct costs in this Topic in the measurement of the right-of-use asset established in (r)(1).
3If a lessee does not elect the practical expedients described in (f), write off any unamortized initial direct costs that do not meet the definition of initial direct costs in this Topic and that are not included in the measurement of the capital lease asset under Topic 840 as an adjustment to equity unless the entity elects the transition method in (c)(1) and the costs were incurred after the beginning of the earliest period presented, in which case those costs shall be written off as an adjustment to earnings in the period the costs were incurred.
4If an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1), subsequently measure the right-of-use asset and the lease liability in accordance with Section 840-30-35 before the effective date.
5Regardless of the transition method selected in (c), apply the subsequent measurement guidance in paragraphs 842-20-35-4 through 35-5 and 842-20-35-8 after the effective date. However, when applying the pending content in paragraph 842-20-35-4, a lessee shall not remeasure the lease payments for amounts probable of being owed under residual value guarantees in accordance with paragraph 842-10-35-4(c)(3).
6Classify the assets and liabilities held under capital leases as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities arising from finance leases for the purposes of presentation and disclosure.
sFor each lease classified as an operating lease in accordance with this Topic, a lessee shall do the following:
1Derecognize the carrying amount of any capital lease asset and capital lease obligation in accordance with Topic 840 at the application date as determined in (c). Any difference between the carrying amount of the capital lease asset and the capital lease obligation shall be accounted for in the same manner as prepaid or accrued rent.
2If an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1) and the lease commenced before the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements or if the entity elects the transition method in (c)(2), recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability in accordance with paragraph 842-20-35-3at the application date as determined in (c).
3If an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1) and the lease commenced after the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements, recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability in accordance with paragraph 842-20-30-1 at the commencement date of the lease.
4Account for the operating lease in accordance with the guidance in Subtopic 842-20 after initial recognition in accordance with (s)(2) or (s)(3).
5Write off any unamortized initial direct costs that do not meet the definition of initial direct costs in this Topic as an adjustment to equity unless the entity elects the transition method in (c)(1) and the costs were incurred after the beginning of the earliest period presented, in which case those costs shall be written off as an adjustment to earnings in the period the costs were incurred.
tIf a modification to the contractual terms and conditions occurs on or after the effective date, and the modification does not result in a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8, or the lessee is required to remeasure the lease liability in accordance with paragraph 842-20-35-4, the lessee shall subsequently account for the lease in accordance with the requirements in this Topic beginning on the effective date of the modification or the remeasurement date.
Build-to-suit lease arrangements
uA lessee shall apply a modified retrospective transition approach for leases accounted for as build-to-suit arrangements under Topic 840 that are existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements (if an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1)) or that are existing at the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph (if an entity elects the transition method in (c)(2)) as follows:
1If an entity has recognized assets and liabilities solely as a result of a transaction's build-to-suit designation in accordance with Topic 840, the entity shall do the following:
iIf an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1), the entity shall derecognize those assets and liabilities at the later of the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements and the date that the lessee is determined to be the accounting owner of the asset in accordance with Topic 840.
iiIf an entity elects the transition method in (c)(2), the entity shall derecognize those assets and liabilities at the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph.
iiiAny difference in (i) or (ii) shall be recorded as an adjustment to equity at the date that those assets and liabilities were derecognized in accordance with (u)(1)(i) or (ii).
ivThe lessee shall apply the lessee transition requirements in (k) through (t) to the lease.
2If the construction period of the build-to-suit lease concluded before the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements (if the entity elects the transition method in (c)(1)) or if it concluded before the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph (if the entity elects the transition method in (c)(2)), and the transaction qualified as a sale and leaseback transaction in accordance with Subtopic 840-40 before that date, the entity shall follow the general lessee transition requirements for the lease.
Lessors
Leases previously classified as operating leases under Topic 840
vFor each lease classified as an operating lease in accordance with this Topic, a lessor shall do all of the following:
1Continue to recognize the carrying amount of the underlying asset and any lease assets or liabilities at the application date as determined in (c) as the same amounts recognized by the lessor immediately before that date in accordance with Topic 840.
2Account for previously recognized securitized receivables as secured borrowings in accordance with other Topics.
3If a lessor does not elect the practical expedients described in (f), write off any unamortized initial direct costs that do not meet the definition of initial direct costs in this Topic as an adjustment to equity unless the entity elects the transition method in (c)(1) and the costs were incurred after the beginning of the earliest period presented, in which case those costs shall be written off as an adjustment to earnings in the period the costs were incurred.
wFor each lease classified as a direct financing or a sales-type lease in accordance with this Topic, the objective is to account for the lease, beginning on the application date as determined in (c) as if it had always been accounted for as a direct financing lease or a sales-type lease in accordance with this Topic. Consequently, a lessor shall do all of the following:
1Derecognize the carrying amount of the underlying asset at the application date as determined in (c).
2Recognize a net investment in the lease at the application date as determined in (c)as if the lease had been accounted for as a direct financing lease or a sales-type lease in accordance with Subtopic 842-30 since lease commencement.
3Record any difference between the amounts in (w)(1) and (w)(2) as follows:
iIf an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1), as an adjustment to equity (if the commencement date of the lease was before the beginning of the earliest period presented or if the lease was acquired as part of a business combination; see also (h)(3)) or earnings (if the commencement date of the lease was on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented).
iiIf an entity elects the transition method in (c)(2), as an adjustment to equity.
4Account for the lease in accordance with this Topic after the application date as determined in (c).
Leases previously classified as direct financing or sales-type leases under Topic 840
xFor each lease classified as a direct financing lease or a sales-type lease in accordance with this Topic, do all of the following:
1Continue to recognize a net investment in the lease at the application date as determined in (c) at the carrying amount of the net investment at that date. This would include any unamortized initial direct costs capitalized as part of the lessor's net investment in the lease in accordance with Topic 840.
2If an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1), before the effective date, a lessor shall account for the lease in accordance with Topic 840.
3Regardless of the transition method selected in (c), beginning on the effective date, a lessor shall account for the lease in accordance with the recognition, subsequent measurement, presentation, and disclosure guidance in Subtopic 842-30.
4Beginning on the effective date, if a lessor modifies the lease (and the modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8), it shall account for the modified lease in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-16 if the lease is classified as a direct financing lease before the modification or paragraph 842-10-25-17 if the lease is classified as a sales-type lease before the modification. A lessor shall not remeasure the net investment in the lease on or after the effective date unless the lease is modified (and the modification is not accounted for as a separate contract in accordance with paragraph 842-10-25-8).
yFor each lease classified as an operating lease in accordance with this Topic, the objective is to account for the lease, beginning on the application date as determined in (c), as if it had always been accounted for as an operating lease in accordance with this Topic. Consequently, a lessor shall do all of the following:
1Recognize the underlying asset at what the carrying amount would have been had the lease been classified as an operating lease under Topic 840.
2Derecognize the carrying amount of the net investment in the lease.
3Record any difference between the amounts in (y)(1) and (y)(2) as follows:
iIf an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1), as an adjustment to equity (if the commencement date of the lease was before the beginning of the earliest period presented or if the lease was acquired as part of a business combination) or earnings (if the commencement date of the lease was on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented).
iiIf an entity elects the transition method in (c)(2), as an adjustment to equity.
4Subsequently account for the operating lease in accordance with this Topic and the underlying asset in accordance with other Topics.
Leases previously classified as leveraged leases under Topic 840
zFor leases that were classified as leveraged leases in accordance with Topic 840, and for which the commencement date is before the effective date, a lessor shall apply the requirements in Subtopic 842-50. If a leveraged lease is modified on or after the effective date, it shall be accounted for as a new lease as of the effective date of the modification in accordance with the guidance in Subtopics 842-10 and 842-30.
1A lessor shall apply the pending content that links to this paragraph to a leveraged lease that meets the criteria in (z) that is acquired in a business combination or an acquisition by a not-for-profit entity on or after the effective date.
Sale and leaseback transactions before the effective date
aaIf a previous sale and leaseback transaction was accounted for as a sale and a leaseback in accordance with Topic 840, an entity shall not reassess the transaction to determine whether the transfer of the asset would have been a sale in accordance with paragraphs 842-40-25-1 through 25-3.
bbIf a previous sale and leaseback transaction was accounted for as a failed sale and leaseback transaction in accordance with Topic 840 and remains a failed sale at the effective date:
1If an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1), the entity shall reassess whether a sale would have occurred at any point on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements in accordance with paragraphs 842-40-25-1 through 25-3. The sale and leaseback transaction shall be accounted for on a modified retrospective basis from the date a sale is determined to have occurred.
2If an entity elects the transition method in (c)(2), the entity shall reassess whether a sale would have occurred at the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph in accordance with paragraphs 842-40-25-1 through 25-3 and recognize the sale as an adjustment to equity. The entity shall then account for the leaseback in accordance with the guidance in Subtopic 842-20 after the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph.
ccAn entity shall account for the leaseback in accordance with the lessee and lessor transition requirements in (k) through (y).
ddIf a previous sale and leaseback transaction was accounted for as a sale and capital leaseback in accordance with Topic 840, the transferor shall continue to recognize any deferred gain or loss that exists at the later of the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements and the date of the sale of the underlying asset (if an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1)) or that exists at the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph (if an entity elects the transition method in (c)(2)), as follows:
1If the underlying asset is land only, straight line over the remaining lease term.
2If the underlying asset is not land only and the leaseback is a finance lease, in proportion to the amortization of the right-of-use asset.
3If the underlying asset is not land only and the leaseback is an operating lease, in proportion to the recognition in profit or loss of the total lease cost.
eeIf a previous sale and leaseback transaction was accounted for as a sale and operating leaseback in accordance with Topic 840, the transferor shall do the following:
1Recognize any deferred gain or loss not resulting from off-market terms (that is, where the consideration for the sale of the asset is not at fair value or the lease payments are not at market rates) as a cumulative-effect adjustment to equity unless the entity elects the transition method in (c)(1) and the date of sale is after the beginning of the earliest period presented, in which case any deferred gain or loss not resulting from off-market terms shall be recognized in earnings in the period the sale occurred.
2Recognize any deferred loss resulting from the consideration for the sale of the asset not being at fair value or the lease payments not being at market rates as an adjustment to the leaseback right-of-use asset at the later of the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements and the date of the sale of the underlying asset (if an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1)) or at the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph (if an entity elects the transition method in (c)(2)).
3Recognize any deferred gain resulting from the consideration for the sale of the asset not being at fair value or the lease payments not being at market rates as a financial liability at the later of the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements and the date of the sale of the underlying asset (if an entity elects the transition method in (c)(1)) or at the beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the pending content that links to this paragraph (if an entity elects the transition method in (c)(2)).
842-10-65-2
Paragraph superseded on 06/30/2025 after the end of the transition period stated in Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements.
842-10-65-3
Paragraph superseded on 06/30/2025 after the end of the transition period stated in Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-20, Leases (Topic 842): Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors.
842-10-65-4
Paragraph superseded on 06/30/2025 after the end of the transition period stated in Accounting Standards Updates No. 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842): Codification Improvements, No. 2019-10, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates, and No. 2020-05, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates for Certain Entities.
842-10-65-5
Paragraph superseded on 06/30/2025 after the end of the transition period stated in Accounting Standards Update No. 2021-05, Leases (Topic 842): Lessors—Certain Leases with Variable Lease Payments.
842-10-65-6
Paragraph superseded on 06/30/2025 after the end of the transition period stated in Accounting Standards Update No. 2021-09, Leases (Topic 842): Discount Rate for Lessees That Are Not Public Business Entities.
842-10-65-7
Paragraph superseded on 06/30/2025 after the end of the transition period stated in Accounting Standards Update No. 2023-01, Leases (Topic 842): Common Control Arrangements.
842-10-65-8
Paragraph superseded on 06/30/2025 after the end of the transition period stated in Accounting Standards Update No. 2023-01, Leases (Topic 842): Common Control Arrangements.
S00 Status
General
842-10-S00-1
The following table identifies the changes made to this Subtopic.
Paragraph	Action	Accounting Standards Update	Date
842-10-S65-1	Amended	Accounting Standards Update No. 2020-02	02/06/2020
842-10-S65-1	Added	Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-13	09/29/2017
S20 Glossary
Not-for-Profit Entity
An entity that possesses the following characteristics, in varying degrees, that distinguish it from a business entity:
aContributions of significant amounts of resources from resource providers who do not expect commensurate or proportionate pecuniary return
bOperating purposes other than to provide goods or services at a profit
cAbsence of ownership interests like those of business entities.
Entities that clearly fall outside this definition include the following:
aAll investor-owned entities
bEntities that provide dividends, lower costs, or other economic benefits directly and proportionately to their owners, members, or participants, such as mutual insurance entities, credit unions, farm and rural electric cooperatives, and employee benefit plans.
Public Business Entity
A public business entity is a business entity meeting any one of the criteria below. Neither a not-for-profit entity nor an employee benefit plan is a business entity.
aIt is required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to file or furnish financial statements, or does file or furnish financial statements (including voluntary filers), with the SEC (including other entities whose financial statements or financial information are required to be or are included in a filing).
bIt is required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Act), as amended, or rules or regulations promulgated under the Act, to file or furnish financial statements with a regulatory agency other than the SEC.
cIt is required to file or furnish financial statements with a foreign or domestic regulatory agency in preparation for the sale of or for purposes of issuing securities that are not subject to contractual restrictions on transfer.
dIt has issued, or is a conduit bond obligor for, securities that are traded, listed, or quoted on an exchange or an over-the-counter market.
eIt has one or more securities that are not subject to contractual restrictions on transfer, and it is required by law, contract, or regulation to prepare U.S. GAAP financial statements (including notes) and make them publicly available on a periodic basis (for example, interim or annual periods). An entity must meet both of these conditions to meet this criterion.
An entity may meet the definition of a public business entity solely because its financial statements or financial information is included in another entity's filing with the SEC. In that case, the entity is only a public business entity for purposes of financial statements that are filed or furnished with the SEC.
Security
A share, participation, or other interest in property or in an entity of the issuer or an obligation of the issuer that has all of the following characteristics:
aIt is either represented by an instrument issued in bearer or registered form or, if not represented by an instrument, is registered in books maintained to record transfers by or on behalf of the issuer.
bIt is of a type commonly dealt in on securities exchanges or markets or, when represented by an instrument, is commonly recognized in any area in which it is issued or dealt in as a medium for investment.
cIt either is one of a class or series or by its terms is divisible into a class or series of shares, participations, interests, or obligations.
S65 Transition and Open Effective Date Information
General
> SEC Staff Guidance
· > SEC Staff Announcement: Transition Related to Accounting Standards Updates No. 2014-09 and 2016-02
842-10-S65-1
Note: At the December 2019 AICPA National Conference on Current SEC and PCAOB Developments, the SEC staff announced that it would not object to a public business entity that otherwise would not meet the definition of a public business entity except for a requirement to include or the inclusion of its financial statements or financial information in another entity's filing with the SEC adopting Topic 842, Leases, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021. Those dates are consistent with the effective dates for Topic 842 as amended in Accounting Standards Update No. 2019-10, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), and Leases (Topic 842): Effective Dates.The following is the text of SEC Staff Announcement: Transition Related to Accounting Standards Updates No. 2014-09 and 2016-02.
FASB Accounting Standards Updates No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), issued in May 2014 and codified in ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), issued in February 2016 and codified in ASC Topic 842, Leases, provide effective dates that differ for (1) public business entities and certain other specified entities and (2) all other entities. The SEC staff has received inquiries from stakeholders regarding the application of the effective dates of ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 842 for a public business entityFN1 that otherwise would not meet the definition of a public business entity except for a requirement to include or the inclusion of its financial statements or financial information in another entity's filing with the SEC.
The transition provisions in ASC Topic 606 require that a public business entity and certain other specified entities adopt ASC Topic 606 for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. FN2 All other entities are required to adopt ASC Topic 606 for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim reporting periods within annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The transition provisions in ASC Topic 842 require that a public business entity and certain other specified entities adopt ASC Topic 842 for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. FN3 All other entities are required to adopt ASC Topic 842 for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020.
In response to the stakeholder inquiries outlined above, the SEC staff would not object to a public business entity that otherwise would not meet the definition of a public business entity except for a requirement to include or the inclusion of its financial statements or financial information in another entity's filing with the SEC adopting (1) ASC Topic 606 for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim reporting periods within annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and (2) ASC Topic 842 for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020.
A public business entity that otherwise would not meet the definition of a public business entity except for a requirement to include or the inclusion of its financial statements or financial information in another entity's filing with the SEC may still elect to adopt ASC Topic 606 and ASC Topic 842 according to the public business entity effective dates outlined above.
This announcement is applicable only to public business entities that otherwise would not meet the definition of a public business entity except for a requirement to include or the inclusion of its financial statements or financial information in another entity's filing with the SEC. This announcement is not applicable to other public business entities.
FN 1 The definition of Public Business Entity in the FASB's ASC Master Glossary states, in part, the following:
A public business entity is a business entity meeting any one of the criteria below . . .
aIt is required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to file or furnish financial statements, or does file or furnish financial statements (including voluntary filers), with the SEC (including other entities whose financial statements or financial information are required to be or are included in a filing) . . .
An entity may meet the definition of a public business entity solely because its financial statements or financial information is included in another entity's filing with the SEC. In that case, the entity is only a public business entity for purposes of financial statements that are filed or furnished with the SEC.
FN 2 Early adoption of ASC Topic 606 is permitted for public business entities and certain other specified entities only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period.
FN 3 Early adoption of ASC Topic 842 is permitted for public business entities and certain other specified entities, as well as for all other entities.