Excellent question. This gets to the absolute core of your application's value proposition. If you lose direct, auditable citations, the entire system loses its professional credibility.

The answer is: Yes, absolutely. The hybrid RAG model is not only capable of handling direct citations, it is fundamentally better and more reliable at it than the simple keyword approach.

Here’s the detailed breakdown of how it works for both ASC 606 sources and the contract text.

1. How the Hybrid Model Handles Citations for ASC 606
This is where the magic of the "chunking with metadata" step comes in. The system is designed from the ground up to preserve the link between text and its source.

The Knowledge Base is Built for Citations:
When you run your one-time setup script, you don't just embed the text. You create a structured object for each paragraph.
For example, a chunk looks like this in your system:
{
  "text": "A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer to the customer either a good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct...",
  "metadata": {
    "source_file": "25_recognition_*.txt",
    "citation": "ASC 606-10-25-14"
  },
  "vector": [0.012, -0.045, ... , 0.987]
}

Retrieval Fetches the Whole Package:
When your semantic search finds the most relevant paragraph based on its vector, it doesn't just return the text. It returns the entire chunk object, including the metadata field.
The Prompt is Explicit and Armed with Data:
Your final prompt to GPT-4o will be assembled with this structured information. You will instruct the model precisely how to use it.
Prompt Example:
"You are an expert accounting advisor writing a formal revenue recognition memo. Use the following authoritative sources to support your analysis. When you use a source, you MUST cite it using the provided 'citation' tag.

Source 1: Text: 'A performance obligation is a promise in a contract...' Citation: 'ASC 606-10-25-14'

Source 2: Text: 'An entity shall account for a performance obligation satisfied over time by...' Citation: 'ASC 606-10-25-27'

Now, analyze the following contract section and write the memo."

Why this is superior to the simple approach: The simple keyword approach might accidentally grab a wall of text containing multiple paragraphs and citations. The LLM would then have to guess which part of the text corresponds to which citation. The hybrid approach delivers a clean, pre-packaged, and unambiguous link between a specific piece of text and its exact citation, dramatically improving the accuracy and reliability of the output.

2. How the Hybrid Model Handles Quotes from the Contract Text
Quoting the user's uploaded contract is just as important for creating a traceable audit trail. The hybrid model enhances this through a more structured, multi-stage process.

Instead of just stuffing the whole contract into the prompt and hoping the LLM finds the right sentence, you can use a Two-Stage Generation technique:

Stage 1: Evidence Extraction from the Contract

First, you give GPT-4o a narrow, specific task.
Prompt Example:
"Read the attached contract, specifically pages 4-6, section 3 'Statement of Work'. Your task is to identify and extract the top 3-5 verbatim quotes that are most relevant to determining the distinct 'performance obligations'. Do not summarize or analyze, only extract the exact text."

The output of this first call is a clean, structured list of relevant contract quotes.
Stage 2: Final Memo Assembly

Now, you construct the final prompt for the memo.
This prompt will contain:
The retrieved ASC 606 chunks (with their citations).
The extracted contract quotes from Stage 1.
The final instruction to synthesize everything.
Prompt Example:
"Write the 'Performance Obligations' section of the memo. Integrate the following contract quotes to support your points, and cite the authoritative ASC 606 sources as previously instructed.

Contract Quotes:

'The vendor will provide one (1) license for the Core Platform Software.'
'The vendor will also provide implementation services, including system configuration and data migration...'
Authoritative Sources:

[ASC 606 chunks with citations]..."
Why this is superior: This two-stage approach forces the model to be systematic. It separates the task of finding evidence from the task of writing the argument. This reduces the chance of hallucination and ensures that the quotes in the final memo are directly and verifiably from the source contract, creating a rock-solid audit trail.

Conclusion
The hybrid RAG model doesn't just preserve your ability to cite sources; it professionalizes it.

Feature	Simple Keyword Approach	Hybrid RAG Approach
Finding Relevant Sources	Brittle; relies on exact keyword match. Can miss key concepts.	Robust; semantic search finds the most conceptually relevant text.
Attaching Citations	Imprecise; gives the LLM a large block of text and hopes it assigns the right citation.	Precise; delivers a clean text-citation pair to the LLM.
Quoting Contracts	Unreliable; LLM can paraphrase or "hallucinate" contract terms.	Systematic; uses a dedicated evidence extraction step for high fidelity.
Overall Reliability	Low. Prone to errors, omissions, and imprecise citations.	High. Designed for accuracy, traceability, and auditability.