Hi [Developer's Name],

Thanks again for the quick fix on the bullet point formatting in the DOCX memo output. I saw that the indentation under "KEY FINDINGS" is working correctly now, which is great.

As I was reviewing the code to understand the change, I had a thought about the implementation in the create_docx_from_text function. I wanted to share it with you for discussion. I'm referring to this specific block:

if any(x in bullet_text for x in ["Logi-AI Suite", "Hardware", "Professional Services", "OptiScan-7", "Over Time", "Point in Time"]):
    bullet_para.paragraph_format.left_indent = Inches(0.5)  # Indent sub-bullets

While this approach works perfectly for the specific memo we were looking at, I'm concerned it might be a "band-aid" fix that could cause issues down the road. My thinking is that it's:

Brittle: It's hard-coded to specific product names and keywords. If we analyze a new contract for a product named "CloudSphere," for example, the indentation would break again.
Not Scalable: It would require us to manually edit the Python code every time we encounter a new product or performance obligation that needs to be indented, which isn't maintainable in the long run.
Mixes Content and Logic: The formatting logic now depends on the specific content of the memo, which ideally should be separate.
I was wondering if we could refactor this to use a more robust, structure-based approach. A couple of ideas come to mind:

Nested Markdown: The ideal solution might be to have the AI generate standard nested markdown (i.e., with leading spaces for sub-bullets). The parser could then be updated to detect this indentation and apply the style accordingly.
Special Markers: A more pragmatic approach could be to have the AI use a special marker for sub-bullets (e.g., * -  instead of just * ). We could then create a new regex pattern to specifically catch and indent these lines.
Both of these approaches would make our document generator "smarter" and more resilient, as it would no longer need to know about specific product names.

Would you be open to revisiting this and implementing a more permanent solution? Removing this hard-coded list now will save us a lot of potential headaches in the future.

Happy to chat more about this if it's helpful.