1 - overall - i want this page to be simple. i want to appeal to those technical accounts (especially revenue and leases and business combinations) who have not yet started using AI/LLM to automate their analyses. i was blown away when i saw that LLMs can do and the countless hours that it could save all at the same time improving quality if given right guidance. we started veritaslogic (VL) to make it easy for such accountants to pop in the contracts and there comes professional grade technical analysis and memo. it just makes sense.
2 - founder story - no picture. can we talk instead about how VL started in 2024 with a vision to tap into the power of AI to automate the technical analysis process? just simple to the point.  you can weave in my story as part of this but don't make it about the founder. with 20+ years experience in audit and accounting, i saw first hand how difficult, time-consuming and high pressure technical account can be and it is most often the focus area of management and auditors as incorrect analysis and conclusion can have significant, cascading impact on the completeness and accuracy of financial reporting. i left EY as an audit partner to start VL and is excited about what this can do for technical accountant now and what it'll develop into in the future. companies i have worked on include many fortune 500 companies including those from tech, biotech, consumer products, and retail. on, VL is 100% employee owned. we don't have venture captailists to report to, shareholders to impress, debt holders or banks to keep happy. we're 100% focused on our customers and that's our mission and focus. we don't have partners and don't have to work to protect their distributions. all our competitions fall into one of these categories. we are different.
2 - vision - i'm not sure about this section. if you think it's helpful, we can touch up what's currently there. but i'm okay if we get rid of this.
3 - values - this sounds good. can we build this out a bit more and make it more professional? instead of precision, let's use "quality". everything we do strives to improve quality everyday. from the prompts we write, to the workflow we tweak, to LLM selection, RAG/knowledge base update, we're focused on quality. "Built by accoutants" is not a value. "Security and privacy" this is important. please leverage the data security content from features.html to build this out further. instead of efficiency without compromise, can we have something about "people first/customer first"?  finally, let's put something on how we will donate 10% of our profit to help the poor and those who need job training. we strive to make a difference not only in the business world but socially as well.
